
--- Page 1 ---
University of Technology and Applied Sciences
                                            Chairman of the University Council

                                    Decision No. (323 / 2023)
 Determining the competences of the administrative divisions of the University of Technology and
                                    Applied Sciences

Based on the System governing the Administrative Apparatus of the State promulgated by the Royal
Decree 75/2020,
The Royal Decree 76/2020 Establishing the University of Technology and Applied Sciences,
The System of the University of Technology and Applied Sciences promulgated by the Royal Decree
47/2021,
The approval of the Council of Ministers, competent entities and the Council of the University of
Technology and Applied Sciences,
Decision No. 322/2023 Adopting the organizational structure of the University of Technology and
Applied Sciences, and
Based on the requirements of the work interest.

                                   Decided as follows:

Article One: The competences of the detailed administrative divisions of the University of
Technology and Applied Sciences shall be determined in accordance with the attached appendix.

Article Two: All those concerned shall implement this decision, each within his/her area of
competence. This decision shall come into force as of its date of issuance.

                            Prof. Dr. Mahad Said Baawain
                          Minister of Labor
                      Chairman of the University of Technology and Applied Sciences
                         Council

Issued on: 06 Ramadan 1444 AH
Corresponding to: 28 March 2023 AD

--- Page 2 ---
 Competences of the administrative divisions at the
  University of Technology and Applied Sciences
1- Internal Audit Department: it is competent to do the following:
 1- Ensure the enforcement of laws, regulations and prescribed financial procedures.
 2- Review the University’s revenues in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Law as well
     as the contracts and agreements concluded in this respect.
 3- Review the payment vouchers of the University, before payment, to ensure that expenditure is made
     in accordance with the laws, regulations and financial systems.
 4-  Review permanent and temporary advances, subject to the provision of the Financial Law in this respect.
 5- Take measures that ensure collecting revenues payable to the University.
 6- Propose measures necessary to rationalize expenditure among the University’s divisions.
 7- Examine the financial, accounting and related books, accounts, records and documents and review
    them in whole or in part.
 8- Review the accounting entries made by the Department of Financial Affairs with regard to expense,
    revenues, fixed or movable property.
 9-  Examine and review the records allocated to register the fixed and movable property of the University.
 10- Examine the final statements of the University as well as the final account for the specified period
    and prepare a report on the same.
 11- Review the activities of vehicles and means of transport, subject to the provisions of the Financial Law.
 12- Conduct the sudden inventory of warehouses, treasuries, permanent and temporary advances as well
     as other fixed and movable property.
 13- Express opinion on the requests related to the write-off of losses caused to public property if there
      is no person responsible for such losses or in case of failing to know such person despite conducting
    necessary investigation.
 14- Take necessary measures in case of detecting any financial or administrative irregularities at the University.
 15- Propose or amend financial control systems and internal control measures in line with the nature,
    terms of reference and activities of the University and its organizational structure in coordination
    with relevant authorities.
 16- Submit periodic reports to the University Council on the examination results, including the examination’s
      irregularities detected, their causes, means to avoid them and their treatment methods.
 17- Submit quarterly reports to the University Council, including the examination results of the
     University’s accounts, its fiscal status and a summary of remarks and recommendations.
 18- Prepare replies to the remarks contained in the reports of the State Audit Institution in coordination
    with relevant authorities.
 19- Develop an annual work plan in all sections of the Department of Internal Audit and submit it to the
    University Council for approval in preparation for its implementation.
 20- Develop an annual audit program for the University Council to get familiar with the Department’s
     regular activities during the year.
 21- Prepare and carry out the annual audit plan of field works which is concerned with reviewing the
     internal audit activities in the branches and colleges.
 22- Submit reports to the University Council on what is completed in the Department’s plan as well as
     difficulties encountered during the plan’s execution and their remedies.
 23- Review the activities related to treasuries, accounts, advance, warehouses and assets as well as
    examine their records to ensure the correctness of administrative and financial procedures.
 24- Propose the regulatory measures and means of the administrative and financial aspects of contracts
    and agreements so as to protect public money and rationalize expenditure.
 25- Propose the systems necessary for administrative and financial oversight as well as internal control
    procedures in line with the duties and competences of the University’s divisions.
 26- Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 3 ---
The Internal Audit Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Expenses and Revenues Audit Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Audit and review payment vouchers for the University’s development and current expenses to
   ensure their correctness and compliance with the applicable systems.
2. Review monthly financial dues, bonuses and other employee benefits and ensure that they are
   expended according to the applicable controls.
3. Review the contracts concluded with the University and ensure their compliance with the Financial
   Law and Executive Regulations before payment.
4. Review the activities of treasuries, accounts, advances, warehouses, means of transport, final
    statements and the registers allocated for recording movable and immovable property.
5.  Conduct periodic and sudden inventory of the contents of treasuries to ensure the integrity of
    balances.
6.  Prepare periodic reports on the examination and review results of the Section’s activities and submit
   such reports to the Administrative and Financial Audit Section to take necessary action.
7.  Participate in preparing periodic reports produced by the Department while carrying out the annual
   plan of internal audit.
8.  Express an opinion on the remarks made by the State Audit Institution and participate in preparing
    the reply suitable for such remarks.
9.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Administrative and Financial Audit Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare and implement the annual internal audit plan for the University and field works and ensure
     its implementation within the specified time period.
2. Review and follow up emergency and business continuity plans as well as develop the plan for all
    internal audit sections at the University.
3. Review the enforcement of laws at the University and ensure that the applicable decisions, laws and
    regulations are sufficient to achieve their purpose.
4. Examine administrative and financial procedures in various divisions of the University and that they
    are in line with the applicable laws and regulations.
5. Examine and review internal control procedures and ensure that the relevant divisions comply with
   applying prescribed procedures according to their competences as well as submit reports on audit
    results to the University Council. This is in addition to proposing the procedures necessary for
   improving such procedures.
6.  Ensure that the accounting operations, entries and systems in addition to the financial data,
    obligations and records are performed properly at the University.
7.  Follow up and review the implementation of the University’s budget and ensure that the Financial
    Affairs Department complies with the procedures in accordance with the Financial Law and its
   Executive Regulations.
8. Examine all procedures related to the management of human resources at the University and ensure
    that such procedures are applied in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the same.
9.  Prepare  periodic  reports on  the examination  results  of  the  activities  of  the  University’s
    organizational divisions as well as notify such divisions of the remarks taken to make necessary
    modifications.
10. Prepare studies on the reports referred by the State Audit Institution which include the results of the
    University’s accounts audit, examine the administrative and financial activities of the University,
    express an opinion on the remarks contained in such reports and suggest suitable reply for the same.
11. Propose the systems necessary for strengthening the administrative and financial oversight as well
    as internal control procedures in line with the competences of the University’s divisions.
12. Propose the mechanisms and controls related to rationalization of expenditure based on the results
    of the financial and administrative review at the University.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 4 ---
C- Information Systems Data Audit Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Ensure that the data of various electronic systems are aligned with the administrative and financial
   system to verify the correctness of information transfer among them.
2.  Follow up and review the electronic administrative and financial programs and systems of the
    University’s divisions to ensure their alignment with the applicable rules and regulations.
3. Review information systems at the University and ensure the accuracy of the inputs and outputs of
    data used and their efficiency and effectiveness.
4.  Propose systems necessary for administrative and financial oversight in addition to internal control
   procedures which are in line with the University’s duties.
5.  Propose the mechanisms and controls related to rationalization of expenditure based on the results
    of the performance review at the University.
6.  Prepare periodic reports on the examination and review results of the Section’s activities and submit
   such reports to the Administrative and Financial Audit Section to take necessary action.
7.  Participate in preparing periodic reports produced by the Department while carrying out the annual
   plan of internal audit.
8.  Express an opinion on the remarks made by the State Audit Institution and participate in preparing
    the reply suitable for such remarks.
9.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Internal Audit Sections at the Branches and Colleges (i.e. the University’s branches in Muscat,
   Sohar, Shinas, Al Mussanah, Al Rustaq, Ibri, Nizwa, Ibraa, Sur, Salalah and Musandam),
   they are competent to undertake the following:
1.  Audit and review payment vouchers for the University’s development and current expenses at the
   branch or college level to ensure their correctness and compliance with the applicable laws,
    regulations as well as administrative and financial systems.
2. Review monthly financial dues, bonuses and other benefits of the branch or college’s employees
   and ensure that they are expended according to the applicable controls and laws.
3. Examine all procedures related to the management of human resources at the branch or college and
   ensure that such procedures are applied in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the
   same.
4. Review the contracts concluded with the branch or college and ensure their compliance with the
    Financial Law and Executive Regulations before payment.
5. Review the activities of treasuries, accounts, advances, warehouses, means of transport, final
    statements and the registers allocated for recording movable and immovable property at the branch
    or college.
6.  Conduct periodic and sudden inventory of the contents of the branch or college treasuries to ensure
    the integrity of balances.
7.  Propose the systems necessary for strengthening administrative and financial oversight as well as
    internal control procedures in line with the duties and competences of the divisions at the branch or
    college.
8.  Propose the mechanisms and controls related to rationalization of expenditure based on the results
    of the financial and administrative review.
9.  Prepare periodic reports on the examination and review results of the Section’s activities and submit
   such reports to the Department Head.
10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 5 ---
2- Vice Chancellor’s Office: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for work priorities at the Office, schedule the plan’s implementation
   throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as implementation obstacles.
2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Vice Chancellor from inside and outside the University,
    prepare the same to be submitted to the Vice Chancellor and implement his/her directives on such
    topics and reports.
3.  Organize the appointments, meetings and communications of the Vice Chancellor as well as
    supervise the reception arrangements of guests from outside the University.
4.  Refer the requests received by the Vice Chancellor’s Office to the University divisions to examine
   them, offer suitable recommendations and prepare necessary responses in this regard.
5. Keep various transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Vice Chancellor’s Office in accordance
   with the applicable procedures in this regard.
6.  Write the minutes of meetings held by the Vice Chancellor with official delegations and follow up
    the implementation of what was agreed upon in coordination with all divisions of the University.
7.  Print and photocopy the topics, decisions and circulars related to the Vice Chancellor’s Office as
   well as number and distribute the same to the competent authorities.
8.  Provide data and information that assist the University in taking suitable decisions in coordination
   with the University’s competent divisions.
9.  Follow up the implementation of the Office’s plans, programs and systems by following modern
   working methods which are in line with quality standards in the follow-up field.
10. Supervise and review incoming and outgoing mail of the Vice Chancellor’s Office and ensure its
    delivery to relevant authorities.
11. Receive the visitors of the Vice Chancellor’s Office, get their requests and guide them to the
    University’s divisions suitable for handling their queries.
12. Propose training and qualification programs for the Office’s employees and work on implementing
   such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
13. Submit proposals and determine mechanisms suitable for executing the plans related to developing
    the capabilities and skills of the Office’s employees.
14. Prepare periodic reports (i.e. annual and period) on the work progress at the Office as well as express
   development proposals.
15. Apply modern management methods in the area of coordination and follow-up.
16. Contribute to improving the services provided.
17. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Vice Chancellor’s Office shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Coordination Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
2.  Receive the topics sent to the Vice Chancellor’s Office, register them, prepare them for presentation,
   implement any directives issued on such topics and refer the same to the competent entities in
    various divisions of the University.
3.  Record the letter sent and ensure their delivery via approved channels to the competent entities.
4.  Contact and coordinate with other division heads at the University with regard to the meetings and
    field visits of the Vice Chancellors.

--- Page 6 ---
5.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Vice Chancellor’s Office in addition to the
    administrative and ministerial decisions and circulars as well as number and distribute the same to
    the competent authorities.
6.  Organize the appointments, meetings, visits and communications of the Vice Chancellor as well as
   make reception arrangements of guests.
7. Keep and classify correspondence, reports and files which are required to be maintained at the
    Section.
8.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
   them in coordination with the various competent divisions of the University.
9.  Submit periodic reports on the work progress at the Coordination Section.
10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Follow-Up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
2.  Prepare a working program to follow up the topics referred from the Vice Chancellor or the Office
   Manager to the University’s divisions and submit reports on the same.
3.  Provide data and information that assist the Vice Chancellor in taking decisions on the topics
   submitted to him in coordination with the University’s divisions.
4.  Follow up the instructions and directives of the Vice Chancellor with regard to the University’s
   work.
5.  Follow up the topics received from all administrative divisions of the University and complete the
   same in relevant departments.
6.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
   such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
7.  Submit periodic reports on the work progress at the Follow-Up Section.
8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Public Relations Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
2.  Supervise the reception and bidding farewell to the official guests of the University Vice Chancellor
    in coordination with competent entities.
3.  Prepare and organize the receptions pertaining to the Vice Chancellor as well as take necessary
    action regarding them.
4.  Supervise the arrangements necessary for receiving and hosting the University’s visitors and prepare
    the programs of their visits to the Sultanate of Oman in coordination with competent entities.
5.  Carry out the tasks of bookings and visas for the guests and visitors of the University in coordination
   with relevant entities from inside and outside the University.
6.  Contact relevant ministries and entities and coordinate with them regarding the field of public
    relations.
7.  Receive the guests of the University’s Presidency, supervise their accommodation and travel as well
    as provide suitable services to them.
8.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
   such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 7 ---
 3- Planning and Development Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Propose the future policies and plans related to the academic, administrative and technical activities
    of  the  University, follow up  their implementation,  evaluate them,  highlight  the  obstacles
   encountering them and suggest ways to overcome such obstacles in coordination with the competent
    divisions of the University.
2.  Submit the proposals and mechanisms to develop work, simplify procedures and raise the
   performance of the University’s divisions to a different level.
3.  Prepare statistical studies and surveys, collect data and prepare reports necessary for decision-
   making in coordination with competent entities.
4.  Identify current and future needs and priorities that ensure achieving the vision, mission and
    objectives of the University.
5.  Propose procedures and methods necessary for updating and developing the planning methodology
    at the University.
6.  Cooperate with competent  authorities  to  create an  integrate  electronic  database which  is
    characterized by accuracy and inclusiveness to support taking right decisions.
7.  Organize the data and statistics of the University as well as establish the foundations of their storage
   and retrieval when needed.
8.  Issue annual statistical bulletins and books as well as devise indicators to measure the performance
    of the University’s divisions in coordination with the concerned entities.
9.  Prepare the Strategic Plans of the University.
10. Prepare the Risk Policy of the University, supervise it and follow up its implementation.
11. Prepare and evaluate emergency readiness plans to face potential risks and propose alternative
    solutions and plans to reduce their impacts.
12. Propose training and qualification programs for the Department’s employees and work on
   implementing such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
13. Contribute to improving the services provided.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

   The Planning and Development Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
   A- Planning Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare the long-range Strategic Plans and ensure their suitability for the objectives, vision and
   mission of the University.
2.  Extract the five-year plans’ draft from the long-range Strategic Plans of the University and develop
   such five-year plans according to latest developments.
3.  Prepare the annual Operational Plans of the University in coordination with the competent entities.
4.  Participate in preparing the draft development budget of various projects and programs of the
    University in collaboration with the competent entities.
5.  Collect the proposals and draft annual plans submitted by various divisions of the University as well
    as examine and evaluate the same.
6.  Prepare the drafts and programs of the University’s annual plan to achieve the University’s
    objectives.
7.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
   such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 8 ---
B- Studies and Statistics Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Collect information, data and statistics related to various activities of the University.
2.  Categorize and classify data and statistics of the University as well as establish the foundations of
    their storage and retrieval.
3.  Provide the concerned entities with statistical data and information according to the instructions
    issued in this regard.
4.  Devise statistical indicators related to the performance of the University’s various divisions to make
   use of the same in planning and taking right decisions.
5.  Prepare and issue annual statistical bulletins and books of the University in addition to the reports
   on the studies and research papers conducted at the University.
6.  Prepare forward-looking studies that monitor the future needs of the society and develop suitable
    proposals to align such needs with the University’s outputs and academic programs in coordination
   with the University’s divisions.
7.  Carry out studies and research papers related to the performance indicators of the University’s
    divisions so as to assess the implementation process of its plans and approved programs.
8.  Conduct studies and research papers related to the academic and administrative processes to
    contribute to create strategic visions, update systems and policies or develop the level of services in
    collaboration with various divisions of the University.
9.  Design questionnaires used in studies and research papers as well as ensure taking samples by an
    accurate statistical methodology along with using an electronic system to design and distribute
    questionnaires.
10. Contribute  to  preparing  the  University’s annual  statistical book  in  coordination with  the
   Department’s sections and remaining divisions of the University.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C-  Follow-Up and Development Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Follow up the implementation of approved plans and carry out a regular assessment for such plans
    to identify difficulties, propose modifications and alternative procedures to achieve their objectives.
2.  Follow up and evaluate the University’s policies related to  its academic, administrative and
    technical activities as well as identify obstacles and propose a mechanism to handle the same.
3.  Design sample tables necessary for collecting and analyzing the data related to draft plans so as to
    prepare the follow-up report of the University’s divisions.
4.  Prepare periodic reports to follow up the execution of the objectives, programs and drafts of
   approved plans including the extent of progress in execution, its difficulties and proposals.
5.  Participate in preparing the University’s operating plans through periodic reports to assess the
    institutional performance of various programs and activities of the University.
6.  Find and develop possible ways to identify the needs and priorities from academic programs, human
   and financial resources as well as construction facilities of the University so as to develop
   performance level of all divisions in coordination with the competent entities.
7.  Propose measures necessary for updating the planning methodology at the University as well as
    suggest indicators and standards necessary for developing the planning process that achieves the
    University’s objectives.
8.  Submit the proposals and mechanisms suitable for developing work and simplifying procedures to
    raise the performance level of all the divisions of the University and activate these procedures.
9.  Participate in preparing questionnaires related to measuring the beneficiary’s satisfaction with the
    University’s programs and its various activities in coordination with the Quality Department.
10. Follow up the implementation of studies and research papers according to the approved timeline of
   each study.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 9 ---
   D- Risk Management Section:  it is competent to undertake the following:

1.  Monitor the risks related to the University and its activities, analyze and classify such risks, assess
    their impact and propose solutions and treatments for the same according to the methodology
   approved in the Sultanate of Oman.
2.  Prepare and analyze the risk map related to the University’s activities and submit the same for
   approval as well as identify the targeted activities according to the probability of risk impact to limit
   such risks and their impact.
3.  Prepare the indicators for predicting crisis risks that may arise at the University and affect its
    activities as well as evaluate and update such indicators whenever necessary.
4.  Prepare and evaluate emergency readiness plans to face potential risks and propose alternative
    solutions and plans to reduce their impacts in collaboration with the approving and supporting
    entities.
5.  Monitor the obstacles related to the implementation of plans, programs and projects which prevent
    the University from achieving its objectives.
6.  Assess and follow up the financial risks of the University’s projects in coordination with competent
    divisions.
7.  Participate in developing the University’s plans and programs in line with its approved risk map.
8.  Prepare a plan to control risks in the work environment at the University to maintain its human and
    physical resources.
9.  Raise awareness about risks in the work environment, methods to handle such risks and preventive
   measures regarding them.
10. Prepare and deliver courses, training workshops and simulation plans for risk management and train
   employees on the same in coordination with the University’s divisions.
11. Conduct studies and researches, keep pace with developments and leading practices in the field of
    risk management and provide recommendations regarding the same.
12. Coordinate with all organizational divisions to understand the main processes of the University’s
    activities and identify risks related to them.
13. Submit periodic reports to the Vice Chancellor regarding the risk management system,  its
    effectiveness and assessment.
14. Prepare the Risk Policy of the University, supervise it and follow up its implementation.
15. Prepare the Forms related to the records of financial risks.
16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 10 ---
4- Quality Department: it is competent to undertake the following:

1.  Disseminate the concepts of distinction, creativity and quality, share the best administrative and
    professional practices as well as ensure the application of the most efficient and developing work
   methods in academic and research institutions.
2.  Develop and follow up the implementation of the approved plan of quality and obtain approval from
    the competent entities from inside and outside the Sultanate.
3.  Participate in preparing Strategic Plans with regard to quality assurance in partnership with various
    divisions of the University.
4.  Follow up the applications of the quality system and establish work mechanisms in various divisions
    of the University.
5.  Provide a guiding reference through determining the foundations and standards needed to measure
    the extent of progress and development in the performance of various divisions of the University.
6.  Offer advice and assistance to various divisions of the University with regard to the implementation
    of quality systems and applications.
7.  Prepare an annual working plan for work priorities at the Department, schedule the plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
8. Examine the remarks contained in the reports of the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation
   and Quality Assurance of Education or the remarks received from the competent entities.
9.  Propose training programs to qualify the University’s staff in the field of quality management to
    raise their efficiency in coordination with the relevant divisions of the University.
10. Suggest the procedures necessary for maintaining the quality of work and best practices at the
    University with its various divisions.
11. Follow up the improvement in the quality of academic, administrative, financial and technical
   performance as well as foster quality culture at the University.
12. Apply and maintain accreditation standards required by the Oman Authority for Academic
    Accreditation and global bodies.
13. Raise the level of experiences and consultancies related to quality and accreditation for all divisions
    of the University.
14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
15. Develop a plan to follow up the application of quality to be approved by the Vice Chancellor at the
   beginning of every year.
16. Advise and assist the University and its units in the area of academic accreditation.
17. Prepare quality audit reports in various divisions of the University.
18. Propose the policies and plans for the requirements of listing academic qualifications of the
    University in line with the Oman Qualifications Framework.
19. Provide technical support and propose plans to raise the efficiency of academic sections.
20. Take measures necessary for listing and registering all qualifications of the University in the
   National Register of Qualifications in collaboration with the Oman Authority for Academic
    Accreditation and Quality Assurance of Education.
21. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 11 ---
     The Quality Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
      A- Quality and Follow-Up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Provide assistance to the University’s divisions to develop and implement quality systems and
       applications to improve administrative and academic services provided at the University.
    2.  Develop, disseminate and review the University’s policies and procedures as well as the Quality
      Assurance Manual and relevant forms.
    3.  Develop the Quality Assurance Plan of the University and follow up the implementation of
      academic accreditation procedures approved by the concerned entities from inside and outside the
       University.
    4.  Prepare a plan for institutional and program accreditation as well as preparatory studies program in
       addition to proposing accreditation tables in consultation with concerned entities
    5.  Apply and maintain accreditation standards required by the Oman Authority for Academic
       Accreditation and Quality Assurance of Education and relevant international bodies.
    6.  Develop the internal quality assurance systems related to the branches and colleges in coordination
       with quality assurance sections.
    7.  Establish a system to manage the policy related to quality assurance at the University’s Presidency,
          its branches and colleges.
    8. Manage the process of reviewing and developing all policies at the University level.
    9.  Implement the annual plan to follow up quality application at the University’s Presidency, its
       branches and colleges.
    10. Oversee the implementation of the main plan of quality assurance, accreditation and partnership
       plans and the approved Strategic Plan in collaboration with the concerned sections.
    11. Create a follow-up system to evaluate quality assurance activities in the University’s divisions.
    12. Foster a quality culture at the University.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Institutional Data Analysis Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Collect, classify and analyze data related to quality assurance at the level of the University.
    2.  Follow up the implementation of the Strategic Plan and key performance indicators at the level of
       the University in collaboration with the Planning and Development Department.
    3.  Conduct institutional researches related to quality assurance.
    4.  Receive and keep annual performance reports at the level of the University.
    5.  Supervise the development of all publications at the level of the University.
    6.  Publish data related to quality assurance procedures at the level of the University in collaboration
       with the concerned entities.
    7.  Prepare periodic reports on the data and information related to quality assurance activities at the
        level of the University.
    8. Examine the remarks contained in the reports of the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation
      and Quality Assurance of Education and the competent institutions in collaboration with the
       concerned entities.
    9.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 12 ---
C- Institutional Accreditation and Proficiency Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Support the branches to prepare for the process of institutional and program accreditation by the
     Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation and Quality Assurance of Education.
    2.  Support the branches to prepare for the process of institutional and program accreditation by the
       regional and international accreditation institutions.
    3.  Advise and support the branches to carry out self-assessments for their activities.
    4.  Raise the level of experiences and consultancies related to quality and accreditation for all divisions
       of the University.
    5.  Support the University’s branches and colleges to assist them in creating the file of academic
        accreditation.
    6.  Assist the branches and colleges in applying the  institutional assessment standards for the
       University.
    7. Communicate with the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation and Quality Assurance of
       Education and other institutions related to accreditation.
    8.  Prepare the University for the projects of ranking global universities.
    9.  Explore and implement international accreditation projects.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Programs and Qualifications Listing Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Propose the policies and plans for the requirements of listing academic qualifications of the
       University in line with the Oman Qualifications Framework.
    2.  Provide technical support and propose plans to raise the efficiency of academic sections at the
       University with regard to completing the requirements of listing qualifications.
    3.  Apply quality assurance standards with regard to various work aspects at the Section.
    4.  Contact and cooperate with local, regional and global institutions for listing and registering
        qualifications in the National Register of Qualifications.
    5.  Provide necessary support to the Academic Programs Department to follow up and coordinate the
       processes related to  listing academic qualifications in various branches and colleges of the
       University.
    6.  Take measures necessary for listing and registering all qualifications of the University in the
       National Register of Qualifications in collaboration with the Oman Authority for Academic
       Accreditation and Quality Assurance of Education.
    7.  Prepare an annual report on the work progress at the Section.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 13 ---
5- Councils and Committees Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Carry out the duties of the University’s Secretariat and Academic Council.
    2.  Prepare for all works of the councils and committees chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he
         is a member as well as examine the topics according to his/her directives in coordination with
      competent entities from inside and outside the University.
    3.  Provide data and information that assist the Vice Chancellor in taking right decisions with regard to
       the topics related to the councils and committees.
    4.  Coordinate among the members of the councils and committees regarding the times of meetings and
        priorities of topics on the agendas.
    5.  Follow up the works of the councils and committees chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he
         is a member in addition to the resolutions and recommendations issued by such councils and
       committees and mechanisms of their implementation in coordination with the competent entities.
    6.  Notify the competent entities of the resolutions issued by the councils and committees as well as
       follow up the implementation of such resolutions.
    7.  Participate in preparing files and summarizing notes related to the works of councils and committees
        in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Keep the files and minutes of the meetings of councils and committees as well as maintain the
        confidentiality of such files and minutes.
    9.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Councils and Committees Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Councils Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare for all works of the councils chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he is a member as
       well as examine the topics according to his/her directives in coordination with the competent entities
      from inside and outside the University.
    2.  Provide data and information that assist the Vice Chancellor in taking right decisions with regard to
       the councils.
    3.  Coordinate among the members of the councils regarding the times of meetings and priorities of
        topics on the agendas of the councils.
    4.  Follow up the works of the councils chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he is a member in
       addition to the resolutions and recommendations issued by such councils and mechanisms of their
       implementation in coordination with the competent entities.
    5.  Notify the competent entities of the resolutions issued by the councils as well as follow up the
       implementation of such resolutions.
    6.  Participate in preparing files and summarizing notes related to the works of councils in coordination
       with the competent entities.
    7. Keep the files and minutes of the meetings of councils as well as maintain the confidentiality of
       such files and minutes.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 14 ---
B- Committees Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare for all works of the committees chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he is a member
       as well as examine the topics according to his/her directives in coordination with the competent
        entities from inside and outside the University.
    2.  Provide data and information that assist the Vice Chancellor in taking right decisions with regard to
       the committees.
    3.  Coordinate among the members of the committees regarding the times of meetings and priorities of
        topics on the agendas of the committees.
    4.  Follow up the works of the committees chaired by the Vice Chancellor or in which he is a member
        in addition to the resolutions and recommendations issued by such committees and mechanisms of
        their implementation in coordination with the competent entities.
    5.  Notify the competent entities of the resolutions issued by the committees as well as follow up the
       implementation of such resolutions.
    6.  Participate in preparing  files and summarizing notes related to the works of committees in
       coordination with the competent entities.
    7. Keep the files and minutes of the meetings of committees as well as maintain the confidentiality of
       such files and minutes.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 15 ---
6- Legal Affairs Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1. Review draft laws, regulations and systems related to the University as well as make necessary
      amendments.
    2.  Prepare, formulate and review draft resolutions, circulars and contracts in which the University is a
       party and ensure that there is nothing that may prevent their approval by the competent entity.
    3. Review and formulate the contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding which will be
       concluded with other entities in coordination with the competent entities.
    4.  Express the legal opinion in the topics referred to this Department by the University’s divisions in
        line with the proper application of the provisions of applicable laws.
    5.  Investigate with staff for any offenses attributed to them after being referred to this Department by
       the competent authority.
    6. Keep investigation records as well as the records of the Administrative Accountability Committee
      and handle such records confidentially.
    7.  Represent the University before the judicial authorities in lawsuits of various degrees and types as
       well as follow up the enforcement of their rulings with an authorization from the Vice Chancellor.
    8.  Follow up the cases brought against the University, prepare legal reports and notes regarding them
       as well as prepare the statements of claims and legal briefs indicating the University’s opinion.
    9.  Prepare periodic and annual reports on the work progress in the Department and submit necessary
      development proposals in this regard.
    10. Prepare an annual working plan for work priorities at the Department, schedule the plan’s
       implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
       implementation obstacles.
    11. Propose training and qualification programs for the Department’s employees and work on
      implementing such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
    12. Follow up appeal requests issued against the University’s decisions and inform applicants of final
       decisions regarding their appeal requests.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Legal Affairs Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Legal Studies Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare legal studies on the topics referred to it by various divisions of the University as well as
       express its legal opinion about them.
    2.  Prepare legal studies and briefs.
    3. Examine appeals and complaints in the topics referred to it by the competent entities within the
       scope of the Department’s competences.
    4. Examine the reports of investigation committees and fact-finding committees in addition to the
      recommendations submitted regarding them and their compliance with the laws and regulations.
    5.  Participate in the committees and working groups.
    6.  Conduct legal researches.
    7.  Prepare periodic reports on the Section’s works.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 16 ---
B- Cases and Investigations Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Represent the University before the judicial authorities in lawsuits of various degrees and types as
       well as follow up the enforcement of their rulings with an authorization from the Vice Chancellor.
    2.  Appeal against judicial rulings which are not acceptable to the University on the legally prescribed
        dates.
    3.  Prepare statements of claims and defense memoranda in the lawsuits filed by or against the
       University.
    4.  Prepare correspondence for various divisions of the University to report on the topics related to the
        lawsuits.
    5.  Follow up the enforcement of judicial rulings and arbitration awards issued against the University
      and prepare the letters related to such enforcement.
    6. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Contracts and Agreements Section:  it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Review the decisions, circulars, contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding which will
      be concluded between the University and other entities before their approval.
    2.  Express  its legal opinion on the topics referred to  it which are related to the contracts and
       agreements.
    3. Review the legal procedures with regard to tenders and practices.
    4.  Ensure that the contract includes all documents necessary for its approval.
    5. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 17 ---
7- Communication and Media Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare and implement the annual media plans of the University’s activities and programs as well
       as share such plans with the concerned entities.
    2.  Present a comprehensive media vision according to the requirements of the University.
    3. Manage the elements and components of the visual identity of the University.
    4.  Prepare, design and implement the media content according to the media plan such as the designs,
       images, videos and graphics.
    5.  Formulate and edit the text content including press releases, publications and other media materials
       as well as their requirements which comprise proofreading and media translation.
    6. Manage the media content of the University’s website and social media.
    7.  Prepare the media readable, visual and audio content released by the University and coordinate
       regarding such content with the concerned entities.
    8.  Organize media events held by the University in coordination with the competent divisions.
    9.  Provide media coverage for the conferences, seminars and events held by the University as well as
       conduct press and media interviews and activities wanted by media organizations in coordination
       with the concerned entities.
    10. Prepare and execute media and marketing campaigns according to annual plans and programs in
       coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Monitor and follow up all materials published about the University in all mass media and websites
       as well as prepare appropriate responses, if required, in coordination with the competent divisions
       of the University.
    12. Communicate with the writers, journalists and media organizations about the topics they discuss so
       as to clarify facts and provide them with information to serve the organization’s orientation and
        objectives.
    13. Coordinate with the concerned organizations in common issues and topics so as to ensure unifying
       the government media messages in line with the official measures applicable in this regard.
    14. Highlight the media role and ensure its readiness in the management of crises in which the
       University is a party in coordination with the University’s divisions.
    15. Stimulate and manage internal communication activities to promote the institutional loyalty of
       employees.
    16. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    17. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 18 ---
 The Communication and Media Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
 A- Digital Communication Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
 1.  Manage media content on the University’s website and follow up the updates of news and activities as well
     as manage social media platforms.
 2.  Coordinate with the owners of active accounts on social media and influential websites so as to provide
    media coverage of the conferences and events held by the University as well as prepare for press and media
     interviews and activities which media organizations want to conduct.
 3.  Communicate and foster the Section’s relationship with the owners of active accounts on social media and
     influential websites about the topics they discuss so as to clarify facts and provide them with information to
     serve the University’s orientation and objectives.
 4.  Monitor and follow up all materials published about the University in all mass media and websites as well
     as prepare appropriate responses, if required, in coordination with the University’s divisions.
 5.  Prepare, design and implement the media content according to the media plan such as the designs, images,
     videos and graphics.
 6.  Carry out media documentation of all materials published about the University on social media platforms.
 7.  Create an online library on the University’s website to include all publications released by the University.
 8.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees in coordination with the competent
     divisions of the University.
 9.  Prepare an annual plan for work priorities at the Section and submit reports on the same.
 10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Media Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
 1.  Formulate and edit the text content including press releases, publications and other media materials as well
     as their requirements which comprise proofreading and media translation.
 2.  Organize media events and activities held by the University in coordination with the concerned entities.
 3.  Provide media coverage for the conferences, seminars and events held by the University as well as prepare
     for media interviews and activities wanted by media organizations in coordination with the concerned
      entities.
 4.  Communicate with the writers, journalists and media organizations about the topics they discuss so as to
     clarify facts and provide them with information to serve the University’s orientation and objectives.
 5.  Carry out media documentation which includes press news, reports and articles whether visual, audio or
     readable.
 6.  Prepare and execute media and marketing campaigns according to annual plans and programs in coordination
     with the concerned entities.
 7.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and follow up their implementation
     in coordination with various competent divisions of the University.
 8.  Coordinate with the concerned organizations in common issues and topics so as to ensure unifying the
    government media messages in line with the official measures applicable in this regard.
 9.  Highlight the media role and ensure its readiness in the management of crises in which the University is a
     party in coordination with the University’s divisions.
 10. Prepare an annual plan for work priorities at the Section and submit reports on the same.
 11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

 C- Creative Content Section:
 1. Manage the elements and components of the visual identity of the University.
 2.  Prepare, design and implement the media content according to the media plan such as the designs,
    images, videos and graphics.
 3.  Prepare and produce the art designs and works of the exhibitions, events and occasions held by the
     University.
 4.  Supervise the University’s publications and follow up their production.
 5. Document the publications, images and videos related to the University.
 6.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and follow up their
    implementation in coordination with various competent divisions of the University.
 7.  Prepare an annual plan for work priorities at the Section and submit reports on the same.
 8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 19 ---
8- Documentation Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare the document classification system, tables of their retention periods, procedural tools
       necessary for documentation management and their retrieval tools in collaboration with the National
      Records and Archives Authority.
    2.  Provide technical support to employees in the process of transferring current documents to the place
       of keeping intermediate documents.
    3. Manage intermediate documents and make them available to their originating entities upon request.
    4.  Transfer archives to the National Records and Archives Authority.
    5.  Destroy the documents whose legal retention period had expired according to the prescribed rules.
    6.  Register the outgoing and incoming mail according to the numerical and chronological sequence
       while observing the documentation system approved by the University.
    7.  Participate  in  the events organized by the bodies and organizations  related  to organizing
       documentation inside and outside the Sultanate.
    8.  Deliver the original outgoing and incoming mail to the concerned divisions at the University.
    9.  Send the outgoing mail to the concerned entities and keep copies of such mail.
    10. Assist the University’s divisions in obtaining copies of the outgoing and incoming mail.
    11. Provide technical support to the University’s employees in applying the rules and regulations related
        to documents.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Documentation Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
   A- Mail Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Register the outgoing and incoming mail according to the numerical and chronological sequence
       while observing the document classification system approved by the University.
    2.  Deliver the original incoming mail to the concerned divisions and keep copies of the same.
    3.  Send the outgoing mail to the concerned entities and keep copies of the same.
    4.  Assist the divisions of the concerned entity in obtaining copies of the outgoing and incoming mail.
    5. Keep copies of the outgoing mail and incoming mail during the period set for the same in the tables
       of retention periods for documents shared among government units.
    6.  Submit periodic reports on the activity and achievements of the Section.
    7.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

   B- Documentation Management Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare the procedural tools related to documentation management, especially the document
        classification system, tables of their retention periods and manuals of their retrieval in coordination
       with the National Records and Archives Authority.
    2.  Assist and train employees on using the procedural tools related to documentation management.
    3. Review the classification system and tables of documentation retention periods whenever necessary.
    4.  Submit periodic reports on the activity and achievements of the Section.
    5.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

   C- Conservation Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Assist all organizational divisions of the University in transferring their documents which are no
       longer in use to the place where intermediate documents are kept.
    2.  Arrange and keep intermediate documents as well as organize access to them.
    3.  Sort intermediate documents and transfer them to the National Records and Archives Authority or
       destroy such documents.
    4.  Submit periodic reports on the activity and achievements of the Section.
    5.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 20 ---
9- Partnership and International Cooperation Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Establish good relations between the University and other  local, regional and international
        universities so as to achieve the University’s vision, mission and objectives.
    2.  Manage, implement and  evaluate  the  cooperation  strategy  with  the  University’s  external
       environment as well as highlight the obstacles encountering such strategy and propose methods to
      overcome such obstacles.
    3.  Build effective partnerships that fulfill the University’s objectives and foster its relation with the
        local, regional and international community.
    4.  Organize conferences, panel discussions and seminars in coordination with the concerned entities
       of the University.
    5.  Prepare the agreements and memoranda of understanding concluded by the University  in
       coordination with the official entities of the State and follow up the procedures used to implement
       such agreements.
    6.  Follow up and evaluate the agreements and memoranda of understanding concluded by the
       University and present recommendations on the same.
    7.  Provide support necessary for the University’s activities with foreign and promotional dimensions.
    8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Partnership and International Cooperation Department shall exercise its competences via the
following sections:
A- Partnership Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Build effective partnerships that fulfill the University’s objectives and foster its relation with the
        local, regional and international community.
    2.  Prepare and formulate the agreements and memoranda of understanding concluded by the
       University in coordination with various community organizations.
    3.  Foster community partnership with the community and industry sectors in coordination with the
       relevant entities.
    4.  Promote partnership with various economic sectors at the local, regional and global levels.
    5.  Follow up  the implementation of  partnership programs with higher education  institutions,
      community and industry sectors as well as economic sectors at the local, regional and international
        levels in addition to preparing reports on the same.
    6.  Coordinate with the academic, supporting and administrative institutions as well as students at the
       University’s branches/ specialized colleges so as to interact with the requirements of community
       organizations.
    7.  Propose methods of partnership with various concerned entities and benefit from their expertise.
    8.  Introduce the University as well as its objectives and mission to community organizations so as to
       build effective partnerships.
    9. Make a list of all partnership programs concluded by the University’s branches and colleges as well
       as work on documenting such programs.
    10. Develop proposals  to get the private sector and community organizations involved  in the
       University’s plans and strategies.
    11. Attend the signing of agreements and memoranda of understanding which are related to partnership
      and prepare reports on the same.
    12. Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees in coordination with
       various competent divisions of the University.
    13. Prepare an annual plan for work priorities at the Section and submit reports on the same.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 21 ---
B- International Cooperation Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Propose methods of international cooperation between the University and other universities in the
       brotherly and friendly countries with regard to higher education, scientific research and innovation.
    2.  Organize overseas visits to the Vice Chancellor and his accompanying delegation as well as prepare
       the visits’ program in coordination with the competent entities.
    3.  Organize cooperation relations with local, regional and international universities in addition to other
       organizations concerned with education.
    4.  Ensure coordination with regard to international agreements concluded by the University.
    5.  Develop a plan to promote for the University with its various branches and colleges in addition to
          its academic programs and the research opportunities available at the University through exhibitions
      and visits to various local, regional and international organizations.
    6.  Prepare the drafts of international cooperation agreements, memoranda of understanding and
       executive programs.
    7.  Follow  up  the  implementation  of  international  cooperation  agreements,  memoranda  of
       understanding as well as prepare reports on their implementation status.
    8. Make a list of all agreements and memoranda of understanding concluded in the area of international
       cooperation and work on documenting the same.
    9.  Act as a link between the University and foreign entities, including academic and scientific
       organizations outside the Sultanate of Oman.
    10. Prepare reports on the visits of the Vice Chancellor on official missions outside the Sultanate of
      Oman.
    11. Prepare the minutes of the Vice Chancellor’s meetings with the officials and delegations working
        in the area of higher education, scientific research and innovation from outside the Sultanate of
      Oman.
    12. Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees in coordination with
       various competent divisions of the University.
    13. Prepare an annual plan for work priorities at the Section and submit reports on the same.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 22 ---
10- University Security Office: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Follow up and monitor the guards of various buildings of the University.
    2.  Organize and oversee the entry and exit of visitors and personnel to the University’s buildings.
    3.  Issue entry permits to the employees who are assigned to do additional works after the official
      working hours in addition to cleaners and technicians.
    4.  Issue security instructions inside the University and follow up their implementation.
    5.  Spread security awareness among the University’s employees regarding the nature of transactions
        at the University and how to maintain the confidentiality of such transactions as well as keep the
      employees informed about security on a permanent basis.
    6.  Receive nominations for appointments from the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Administrative and
       Financial Affairs so as to complete security measures in this regard.
    7.  Contact the competent entities to obtain the results of security clearance and criminal record whether
      upon appointment, promotion or transfer, etc.
    8.  Supervise the protection of classified materials and carry out investigation in case of loss of any
        classified materials or gain access to such materials by unauthorized persons as well as submit a
        report on the same.
    9. Keep the reports of each employee in his/her personal file and maintain their confidentiality.
    10. Supervise the process of organizing and keeping the confidential files of the University’s members
      and employees.
    11. Prepare periodic and annual reports on the work progress at the Office as well as submit necessary
      development proposals in this regard.
    12. Propose training and qualification programs for the Office’s employees and work on implementing
       such programs in coordination with the concerned divisions of the University.
    13. Prepare an annual working plan for work priorities at the Office, schedule the plan’s implementation
       throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as implementation obstacles.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The University Security Office shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Personnel Data Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Carry out the procedures related to administrative matters and human resources to complete
      employment and promotion forms as well as coordinate with the entities related to the procedures
       of transferring the services of employees from and to the University, changing the name and other
      employment procedures and follow up their related measures with the competent entities inside and
       outside the University.
    2.  Contact the Directorate General of Inquiries and Criminal Search at Royal Oman Police to obtain
       the criminal record of the candidate for appointment.
    3.  Fill in the forms of the University’s employees sent to study abroad with the assistance of competent
        security entities.
    4. Manage and keep the files and documents at the Office.
    5.  Prepare periodic and annual reports as well as statistics of the Office and submit the same to the
       Office Manager whenever needed.
    6.  Follow up and coordinate with competent persons inside and outside the Office about the topics as
       well as incoming and outgoing correspondence, provide required data and information and prepare
       responses for the same according to the instructions issued regarding them.
    7.  Coordinate with the University’s branches and colleges about the processes of implementation and
       development.
    8.  Coordinate with the entities concerned with the procedures of hosting figures from inside and
       outside the Sultanate of Oman to deliver lectures or participate in workshops with cultural or
        scientific aspects.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 23 ---
B- Facilities and Personnel Security Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Assess the expected security risks for the University’s building, branches, colleges and installations.
    2.  Supervise security guards at the University’s buildings.
    3.  Supervise the control of the University’s buildings as well as various guard posts and entrances.
    4.  Coordinate with the Security Electronic Systems Section about the processes of securing the
       University’s buildings.
    5.  Link all security electronic control systems to the Office as well as supervise them.
    6.  Coordinate with the competent entities about the cases observed to protect the University’s facilities
      and contents.
    7. Keep information and various clips created by recording systems in strict confidence.
    8.  Submit periodic reports to the Office Manager whenever needed.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

11- Electronic Information Security Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Create and activate a system to manage electronic security and informational safety  at the
       University.
    2.  Prepare plans for the security audit and assessment of programs, networks, systems and users’
        activities as well as follow up the implementation of recommendations related to appropriate
        security solutions.
    3.  Develop and review the policies and procedures related to electronic information security and
       informational safety including documentation security as well as follow up the implementation of
       such policies and procedures.
    4.  Participate in preparing and reviewing emergency and business continuity plans.
    5.  Follow up the compliance with the standards and policies approved in the area of electronic
       information security and informational safety.
    6.  Ensure following up the security alerts and announcements related to risks and gaps.
    7.  Handle and report security incidents of electronic and informational information.
    8.  Analyze electronic risks and threats as well as the scope of their impact.
    9.  Coordinate regarding the analysis of digital evidences related to security incidents.
    10. Ensure that there is no misuse of equipment and systems as well as comply with the instructions of
       data security and safety.
    11. Coordinate regarding the implementation of training and awareness programs in the area of
        electronic security and safety of electronic information.
    12. Submit periodic reports to the University’s officials about the key performance indicators of
        electronic information security, risks and detected security incidents.
    13. Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
       implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
       implementation obstacles.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 24 ---
12- Oman Vision 2040 Implementation Follow-Up Office: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in the works of programming and planning to make the University’s plans, programs
      and projects aligned with the objectives of Oman Vision 2040.
    2.  Follow up the implementation of the University’s Strategic Plans and programs so as to achieve the
        targets of Oman Vision 2040 as well as review and update the same on a permanent basis.
    3.  Develop the Dashboard of performance indicators and standards of quality of services provided to
       the University’s clients in line with the targets of Oman Vision 2040 which are related to the
       University’s competences as well as follow up their implementation and work on updating the same
        in coordination with Oman Vision 2040 Implementation Follow-Up Unit.
    4.  Follow up all matters related to the University’s efforts or any higher directives so as to achieve
     Oman Vision 2040.
    5.  Follow up the implementation of the Vision Indicators Improvement Plans related to the University
       as well as their main indicators according to its annual plan.
    6.  Follow up the organizational division concerned with planning at the University with regard to the
       implementation of the strategic programs and initiatives related to the achievement of the Vision.
    7.  Ensure the quality of the plans, indicators, programs and initiatives related to the achievement of
       the Vision and the level of achievement on the ground.
    8.  Ensure the continuity and quality of the development of strategic projects and initiatives as well as
        their implementation plans with stakeholders to ensure the achievement of the Vision’s targets.
    9.  Prepare periodic reports to the Unit Head on the work progress in the projects approved for the
       University,  propose  appropriate  solutions  to overcome  the  challenges which impede  the
       implementation of such solutions in coordination with the Oman Vision 2040 Implementation
      Follow-Up Unit and hold periodic meetings with officials to take corrective actions.
    10. Follow up all procedures and works approved to simplify procedures and facilitate services provided
        to the University’s clients in coordination with the Oman Vision 2040 Implementation Follow-Up
       Unit and submit periodic reports on the same to the Vice Chancellor.
    11. Foster effective partnership among all entities related to the implementation of approved projects at
       the University as well as hold periodic meetings to overcome difficulties that encounter their
       implementation in coordination with the Oman Vision 2040 Implementation Follow-Up Unit.
    12. Review and assess all documents and evidences that prove the completion of approved projects at
       the University and ensure their quality in coordination with the Oman Vision 2040 Implementation
      Follow-Up Unit.
    13. Ensure that there are media plans and effective media communication as well as follow up their
      work progress in coordination with the Communication and Media Department.
    14. Educate the University’s employees about the themes and objectives of Oman Vision 2040 as well
       as its future plans related to the University’s activity in coordination with the Oman Vision 2040
       Implementation Follow-Up Unit.
    15. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 25 ---
First: Deputy Vice Chancellor for Administrative and Financial Affairs
Deputy Vice Chancellor for Administrative and Financial Affairs: he is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan related to administrative and financial
         affairs.
    2.  Supervise the preparation and implementation of operating plans of his/her affiliated divisions.
    3.  Apply the quality system in his/her affiliated administrative and financial divisions.
    4.  Propose and issue administrative decisions according to the powers and mandates stipulated in the
        rules and regulations.
    5.  Supervise all his/her affiliated administrative and financial divisions.
    6.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules and regulations with regard to administrative and financial
         affairs.
    7.  Prepare the draft estimated budget of the University in coordination with the deputies and assistants
       of the Vice Chancellor and the like as well as submit the same for approval.
    8.  Carry out financial and administrative planning as well as prepare the regulations related to the
       University’s financial and administrative works in line with the financial and administrative rules
      and regulations of the State.
    9.  Supervise specifying the University’s needs of constructions.
    10. Supervise specifying the conditions and specifications of the materials and equipment to be installed
        in the buildings according to the rules and regulations in force in the State.
    11. Consider the University’s needs of lands required for its projects.
    12. Supervise and apply the annual plan of protective maintenance.
    13. Examine the recommendations prepared by the assistants of the Vice Chancellor at the branches
      and the deans as well as give his/her remarks regarding the same.
    14. Provide the University’s needs of human resources, administrative and educational requirements as
       well as training and equipment according to the requirements of the University’s divisions.
    15. Develop administrative systems to raise the performance level of employees at the University
       through applying modern administrative practices.
    16. Work on employing the University’s resources with high efficiency.
    17. Submit an annual report to the Vice Chancellor on the work progress in his/her affiliated divisions.
    18. Form various committees related to the activities of human resources, administrative and financial
        affairs as well as projects.
    19. Any other duties assigned to him by the Vice Chancellor and that fall within his/her competences.

The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Administrative and Financial Affairs shall undertake his/her
competences via the following divisions:
1- Coordination and Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Deputy Vice Chancellor, prepare the same to be submitted
        to the Deputy Vice Chancellor and implement his/her directives on such topics and reports.
    3.  Organize the dates, meetings and communications of the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
    4.  Receive visitors and respond to their queries as well as receive their requests and refer the same to
       the competent organizational divisions.
    5. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office in
       accordance with the applicable procedures in this regard.
    6.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
    7.  Supervise and review incoming and outgoing mail of the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office and
       ensure its delivery to concerned entities.
    8.  Apply modern management methods in the area of coordination and follow-up.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 26 ---
2- Administrative Affairs Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    2.  Organize and follow up the daily movement of vehicles of the University’s presidency according to
       the powers granted and work needs.
    3.  Provides the services of communications,  electricity, water, maintenance and gardening  in
       coordination with the University’s competent entities and ensure the quality of their delivery.
    4.  Participate in providing office equipment and stationery as well as other work requirements at the
       University in coordination with Financial Affairs Department.
    5.  Participate in the procedures related to the purchase, rental, sale and lease of governmental movables
        at the University.
    6.  Participate in taking the procedures related to request for quotations, negotiation with companies
      and inviting tenders for office equipment and tools as well as other work supplies in coordination
       with the Financial Affairs Department.
    7.  Exercise general supervision of the University’s stores in accordance with the rules and regulations
       regulating the stores.
    8.  Participate in the annual inventory of stores’ contents as well as public auction in coordination with
       the concerned entities.
    9.  Coordinate with the competent entities so as to ensure the safety of facilities, assets and services.
    10. Develop the aspects of employee welfare in coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Take all measures related to travel visas, business and residence cards, etc. for the University’s
      employees in coordination with the concerned entities.
    12. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the competent entities.
    13. Carry out customs clearance processes for the goods received in the name of the University and
        deliver the same to the concerned entities.
    14. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    15. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Administrative Affairs Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Stores and Transportation Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Organize and follow up the daily movement of vehicles of the University’s Presidency according to
       the powers granted and work needs.
    3.  Participate in the annual inventory of stores’ contents as well as public auction in coordination with
       the concerned entities.
    4.  Take necessary measures with regard to the University’s vehicles in terms of the follow-up of traffic
        infractions and accidents, periodic maintenance, insurance and fuel consumption cards.
    5.  Participate in the procedures related to the purchase, rental, sale and lease of government movables
        at the University.
    6.  Participate in the provision of supplies such as office equipment and tools as well as the furniture
       of the University’s Presidency in coordination with the Financial Affairs Department.
    7. Open a special record of each vehicle which contains all documents related to the vehicle.

--- Page 27 ---
    8.  Receive the financial claims from companies, ensure their correctness and follow up their payment
        in coordination with the Financial Affairs Department.
    9.  Receive  the  purchases  of  the  University’s  Presidency,  ensure  their compliance  with  the
        specifications, list them in the records and keep them in the places allocated for the same.
    10. Enter and keep the data of materials in the Stores’ System and issue periodic reports of the outgoing
       materials and their balances.
    11. Prepare stores’ supply orders according to the needs and requests received from the divisions of the
       University’s Presidency.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Services Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Participate in taking the procedures related to request for quotations, negotiation with companies
      and inviting tenders for office equipment and tools as well as other work supplies in coordination
       with the Financial Affairs Department.
    3.  Follow up the periodic maintenance necessary for the equipment, devices and furniture in the
       buildings of the University’s Presidency.
    4.  Supervise the rented houses, complete contracts’ procedures with owners of houses and fill in all
        data.
    5.  Supervise all cleaning and afforestation at the University’s Presidency.
    6.  Organize the distribution of daily newspapers and magazines and the Official Gazette as well as
        periodicals and publications at the University’s Presidency.
    7.  Clear and receive the goods and packages sent to the University’s Presidency.
    8.  Provides the services of communications, electricity, water and other supporting services needed by
       the University and ensure the quality of their delivery.
    9.  Submit the proposals that aim to develop and raise the efficiency of services provided at the level
       of the University’s administrative divisions.
    10. Coordinate with the competent entities so as to ensure the safety of facilities, assets and services as
       well as raise their efficiency.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Employees’ Welfare Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Develop the aspects of employee welfare in coordination with the concerned entities.
    3.  Search for offers and benefits for the University’s employees in collaboration with other entities
      from outside the University.
    4.  Coordinate to hold and implement entertainment programs and various events for the University’s
       employees.
    5.  Take all measures related to travel visas, business and residence cards, etc. for the University’s
      employees in coordination with the concerned entities.
    6. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the competent entities.
    7.   Participate in the activities of the relevant committees and follow up the implementation of
       decisions related to the Section’s activities.
    8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 28 ---
3- Financial Affairs Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Implement the financial legislations, laws, regulations and circulars.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    3.  Pay the salaries and dues of all employees of the University’s Presidency and deduct amounts due.
    4.  Pay the due amounts of the government entities, companies, institutions and individuals with whom
       the University is dealing.
    5. Keep the accounts of permanent and temporary advances as well as settle the same according to the
        rules and regulations governing such accounts.
    6. Keep the accounts of the vault of the University’s Presidency, deliver all amounts received and pay
      from the permanent advance according to the applicable financial regulations.
    7.  Prepare the draft current and capital annual budget according to the University’s plans and as per
       the circulars issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy.
    8.  Prepare the final account of the University’s budget.
    9.  Control the accounts of banks dealt with and reconcile balances in accordance with the Financial
     Law and its Executive Regulations.
    10. Collect the revenues from the fees of services provided by the University.
    11. Make transfers (redeployments) among budget items within the limits of law according to work need.
    12. Take measures necessary to achieve internal control, oversee expenditure, maintain public money
      and improve the financial status.
    13. Establish the technical rules of accounting entries, financial spending, recording of liabilities and
       regulation of the auditing process.
    14. Take measures necessary to provide the commodity and service needs of the University in
       coordination with the concerned entities.
    15. Examine the requests received by the Department and check the possibility of providing financial
        allocations to fulfill such requests.
    16. Participate in examining the reports of the State Audit Institution and respond to such reports in
       coordination with the Internal Audit Department.
    17. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    18. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    19. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Financial Affairs Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Budget Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare the draft current and development annual budget of the University and its final account.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Notify the University’s divisions, branches and colleges of the financial circulars issued by the
       Ministry of Finance about the foundations used in preparing the estimates of its draft budgets as
       well as examining and discussing them with the officials of such entities.
    4.  Discuss the draft budget with the University’s officials.
    5. Review the estimated cost of project budgets and annual programs as well as examine the possibility
       of their implementation.
    6. Make transfers (redeployments) among budget items and articles within the limits of the law.
    7.  Oversee payments from budget items and prepare periodic reports on the same.
    8.  Implement the decisions related to the budget of jobs.
    9. Keep the records to follow up financial commitments and liabilities.
    10. Analyze data and prepare the studies related to budgets.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 29 ---
B- Expenses and Salaries Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.

    2. Open and keep the records of expenses according to the forms approved in the Financial Law and
          its Executive Regulations.
    3. Review the invoices of companies, institutions and individual with whom the University deals in
       preparation for their payment.
    4.  Execute payment vouchers for recurrent expenditure.
    5.  Execute payment vouchers on the development budget.
    6.  Enter the records of contracts, prepare the record of partial payments and issue payment vouchers
        for the same in accordance with the concluded service contracts.
    7.  Pay the allocations of study fees to the University’s employees studying inside and outside the
       Sultanate of Oman.
    8.  Pay the salaries and dues of the employees as per the dates which are legally specified.
    9.  Pay the allowances of official missions, carry-over and training allowances, cash compensation for
       annual leaves and the allowance of travel tickets.
    10. Issue the payment vouchers of travel tickets or a cash compensation for them.
    11. Issue the certificates of salary transfer for the University’s employees.
    12. Take measures necessary for making deductions due from the employees any amounts due to any
      government entity as well as follow up the payment process.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Treasury Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Control the accounts of banks dealt with and reconcile balances in accordance with the Financial
     Law and its Executive Regulations.
    3.  Prepare the records of government banks opened at the University and register them according to
      approved forms.
    4. Keep permanent and temporary advances and disburse from them according to their designated
       purpose and as per the applicable financial regulations.
    5.  Produce the estimates of annual revenues in coordination with the Budget Section.
    6.  Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used furniture
       according to the applicable legal regulations.
    7.  Follow up the cash balance of the University on a periodic and permanent basis.
    8.  Prepare the vouchers of collections and coordinate with the Ministry of Finance regarding the same.
    9.  Collect revenues gradually in accordance with the Financial Law, its Executive Regulations and
       regulating circulars as well as deliver such revenues to the Ministry of Finance.
    10. Activate electronic collection and follow up with the University’s branches and divisions regarding
          its application.
    11. Open bank accounts in coordination with the Ministry of Finance and commercial banks.
    12. Provide necessary petty cash according to the applicable regulations in coordination with the
       concerned entities as well as follow up their settlement.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 30 ---
D- Purchases Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2. Keep the records of purchases according to the Forms specified in the Financial Law and its
       Executive Regulations.
    3.  Participate in the provision of the University’s needs including tools, furniture, devices and other
       required supplies.
    4.  Participate in preparing the conditions of the practice or tender issued by the University as well as
       complete the remaining purchase procedures with regard to providing the University’s needs of
        tools, furniture and equipment.
    5.  Participate in analyzing the offers of tenders issued by the Internal Tenders Committee at the
       University.
    6.  Take necessary action to obtain the best offers and rates so as to provide the University’s needs.
    7.  Issue, register and deliver purchase orders as well as assignment orders to the companies concerned
       with supply.
    8.  Complete and update the records of suppliers on a periodic and permanent basis.
    9.  Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used furniture
       according to the applicable legal regulations.
    10. Follow up the receipt of invoices and delivery notes and transfer the same to the concerned entities
        to pay financial dues.
    11. Make travel reservations for the University’s employees, issue purchase orders for travel tickets
      and get quotations in the case of cash compensation.
    12. Coordinate with the University’s divisions with regard to the cash compensation for the travel
        tickets of non-Omani faculty members.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

4- Human Resources Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    2.  Implement the legislations, laws, regulations and decisions related to employee affairs.
    3.  Take the measures related to promotions, bonuses, leaves, service termination, termination and
       scholarships for study abroad in addition to training.
    4.  Plan human needs and take measures necessary to create a human cadre at the University.
    5.  Take the measures related to appointment, transfer, delegation and secondment as per the applicable
        regulations.
    6.  Follow up and supervise the implementation of human resources systems.
    7.  Take the measures related to the assessment of job assessment of the University’s employees.
    8. Review and approve the annual and five-year training and qualification plans proposed by the
       University’s divisions and branches.

--- Page 31 ---
    9.  Follow up the activities of the Personnel Committee, Human Resources Development Committee
      and other competent committees as well as implement their decisions.
    10. Take the measures related to job arrangement and classification.
    11. Plan the optimal use of human resources at the University in coordination with the competent
         entities.
    12. Establish benchmarks for the balanced distribution of employees among the University’s various
        divisions.

    13. Prepare the studies related to training, qualification and creation of human cadres as well as submit
       proposals in this regard.
    14. Provide data, information and statistics required and related to human cadres working at the
       University.
    15. Prepare the certificates of experience and other certificates required by the employees based on the
       records and service files.
    16. Create a partnership with training Centres to service the University’s objectives and meet its training
       needs.
    17. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    18. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    19. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
The Human Resources Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Personnel Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Follow up and supervise the implementation of human resources systems as well as update such
       systems on a periodic and permanent basis.
    3.  Take the measures related to the assessment of the job performance of the University’s employees.
    4.  Take the measures necessary to create the human cadre of the University.
    5.  Participate in the activities of the committees related to its competences as well as follow up the
       implementation of the decisions related to the Section’s work.
    6. Examine the requests for appointment, promotion, transfer, delegation, secondment and assignment,
       give special bonuses, incentive bonuses and overtime pay as well as prepare and issue the decisions
        related to the same.
    7.  Prepare the certificates of experience and other certificates required by the employees based on the
       records and service files.
    8.  Take the measures related to leaves, service termination, retirement, post-service rights and official
       missions as well as issue the decisions related to the same.
    9.  Follow up the attendance and departure of employees from and to the workplace at the University
        in coordination with the concerned entities.
    10. Take the measures related to the employees’ clearance of as well as add the previous service.
    11. Implement the decisions of Personnel Committee in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Prepare the annual program of employees’ leaves and approve it from the competent entities.
    13. Keep the decisions issued by the Section in employees’ files and follow up their updates in the
        electronic system.
    14. Complete the procedures of employment contracts at the level of the University as well as follow
      up their implementation and renewal.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 32 ---
B- Training and Qualification Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2. Review and approve the annual and five-year training and qualification plans proposed by the
       University as well as follow up the implementation of such plans.
    3.  Support aspects of partnership with training Centres to serve the University’s objectives and meet
          its training needs.
    4.  Prepare the studies related to training and qualification as well as submit development proposals
       regarding the same.
    5.  Create the databases of employees’ training and qualification as well as update the same on a
      permanent basis.
    6.  Take the measures related to the nomination requests for scholarships and training programs
       provided inside and outside the Sultanate of Oman.
    7.  Organize training programs, workshops, seminars and conferences on a regular basis to raise the
       performance level and skills of the University’s employees.
    8.  Measure the return from training on the employee and the division to which s/he is affiliated.
    9. Examine the requests to join training and qualification programs not approved in the plans.
    10. Prepare the decisions related to sending employees to qualification, training, missions, scholarships
      and study leaves.
    11. Receive and review the invoices of training programs and refer such invoices to the competent
         entities.
    12. Examine the training requests at the University, its branches and colleges as well as assess the
       performance of trainees and issue training certificates.
    13. Examine training offers and select the best offers in coordination with the companies and training
       Centres as well as provide facilities and privileges.
    14. Participate in the activities of the committees related to  its competences and follow up the
       implementation of decisions related to the Section’s activities.
    15. Follow up the performance of employees sent for studying abroad.
    16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
C- Career Planning and Management Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Plan for human needs required by various divisions of the University.
    3.  Take the measures related to job arrangement and classification as well as prepare the budget of
       vacant and filled jobs in coordination with the concerned entities.
    4.  Participate in the activities of the committees related to  its competences and follow up the
       implementation of decisions related to the Section’s activities.
    5.  Provide data, information and statistics about human cadres working at the University.
    6.  Plan the career path of the University’s employees at the University Presidency as well as its
       branches and colleges.
    7.  Prepare the draft organizational structure of the University and work on developing and updating
       such structure in coordination with the concerned divisions.
    8.  Plan the optimal use of human resources at the University in coordination with the competent entities.
    9.  Establish benchmarks for the balanced distribution of employees among the University’s various
        divisions.
    10. Express opinion on the budget of annual jobs at the University before its approval.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 33 ---
5- Projects Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    2.  Issue tenders and practices via the Electronic Tendering System in coordination with the concerned entities.
    3.  Take the measures related to the University’s lands.
    4.  Supervise and follow up the preparation of engineering designs and maps of projects carried out by
       the University.
    5.  Supervise new constructions and their compliance with the specifications as well as follow up the
        existing buildings and prepare reports regarding them.
    6.  Prepare the time plans to implement projects approved.
    7.  Develop plans necessary for the maintenance of the University’s buildings and  facilities in
       coordination with the Administrative Affairs Department and the Financial Affairs Department.
    8.  Participate in preparing the budget of the University’s projects (Development Budget).
    9.  Prepare studies and proposals that contribute to implementing the five-year and annual plans as well
       as prepare periodic reports.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Review and approve the invoices of projects completed.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Projects Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Engineering Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1. Examine the University’s needs for constructions as well as collect data and ensure their compliance
       with technical specifications and aspects.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
        Visit the locations of lands allocated for projects for which the designs are to be prepared.
    3.  Prepare the initial engineering designs and develop concepts for all projects and buildings to ensure
       the provision of all operating expenses.
    4.  Prepare the technical specifications and add conditions necessary for the forms of used contracts.
    5.  Prepare a schedule to implement the projects approved after they are awarded.
    6.  Follow up the work of companies and institutions responsible for the University’s projects as well
       as prepare reports about the challenges and recommendations.
    7.  Receive the buildings completed through the receiving committee for each project.
    8. Keep the original designs and all executive drawings to refer to them whenever needed.
    9.  Supervise and follow up the existing buildings, submit reports necessary about them and present
       proposals and recommendations.
    10. Issue tenders and practices for engineering constructions and consultancies.
    11. Specify the conditions and specifications required for materials and equipment to be installed in the
       buildings in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.
    12. Participate in formulating service contracts and complete all conditions which must be included in
       the contract as well as follow up their approval.
    13. Follow up the topics related to the University’s properties with the competent entities.
    14. Obtain the approvals necessary for implementing the University’s projects from the concerned
        entities whenever required.
    15. Review and approve the invoices of projects completed.
    16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 34 ---
B- Maintenance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare and implement the annual plan of preventive maintenance.
    2.  Control the qualitative quality of the works carried out by the companies responsible for
       maintenance works at the University.
    3.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    4.  Propose means to improve and fix some implementation errors that may arise after the operation.
    5.  Observe the aspect of security and safety when examining additional requests for equipment and
        tools.
    6.  Ensure the continued provision of water, electricity, telephone and internet services, etc. to the
       University’s building in coordination with the concerned entities.
    7. Review and prepare operation and maintenance manuals, including the general and technical
       conditions as well as bills of quantities.
    8. Keep the shop drawings and maps of the systems of electricity, water, air-conditioning, telephone,
        internet and sewerage for buildings.
    9.  Supervise the implementation of contracts concluded with the companies that specialize in the
      works of operation and maintenance as well as assessment of contractors’ performance.
    10. Receive maintenance requests for all breakdowns and emergencies, coordinate with maintenance
      companies and prepare necessary reports.
    11. Issue tenders and practices with regard to service works and supplies in coordination with the
       Administrative Affairs Department and the Financial Affairs Department.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 35 ---
6- Resources and Assets Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    2.  Provide facilities and incentives of various types to encourage revenues and achieve self-reliance.
    3.  Promote and develop current self-generated income and create new and various funding sources.
    4.  Create an attractive environment for achieving suitable income to support the academic and research
       environment as well as serve the community.
    5. Employ all experiences as well as the University’s human resources to diversify its funding sources.
    6.  Take the measures related to revenue rotation as well as harness financial assets.
    7.  Prepare the studies and researches related to the revenue development of resources and assets.
    8.  Ensure collecting income according to the economic feasibility results and studies.
    9.  Develop and foster relationships with the institutions and individuals.
    10. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Resources and Assets Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Revenues Development Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Prepare the plans and feasibility studies for the projects concerned with the development of the
       University’s revenues.
    3.  Identify and follow up revenue development projects which the University wish to implement.
    4.  Prepare studies and researches that boost the University’s revenues as well as work on finding
        alternative sources to develop the University’s resources.
    5.  Provide the information related to the companies and commercial  institutions that wish to
      implement revenue development projects at the University.
    6. Draw up draft agreements and contracts as well as assist in preparing the tenders and auctions related
        to the Department’s work.
    7.  Prepare the periodic reports related to the Section’s work.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Revenues Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Conduct financial analyses for revenue development projects at the University as well as follow up
        their financial status.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the payment of amounts due related to projects with the competent entities at the
       University.
    4.  Follow up the contracts related to collection of amounts from investors and tenants.
    5.  Organize collection works and follow up their deposit according to the rules and regulations.
    6.  Follow up the income of revenue development projects carried out by the University.
    7.  Prepare the budget of revenue development projects.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 36 ---
Second: Deputy Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services
Deputy Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services: he is competent to undertake
the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to electronic systems and student services as
       well as follow up their implementation after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise his/her affiliated divisions and follow up the work progress in such divisions.
    3.  Apply quality assurance standards in his/her affiliated divisions.
    4.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to electronic systems and
       student affairs as well as review the same and propose their development in coordination with the
        assistants of the Vice Chancellor and deans.
    5.  Propose and issue administrative decisions according to the powers and mandates stipulated in the
        rules and regulations.
    6.  Approve the plans of annual student activities in coordination with the University’s branches,
       colleges and academies.
    7.  Supervise the processes related to electronic systems provided by the University so as to ensure
       achieving efficiency and effectiveness.
    8. Examine the recommendations related to electronic and student services which are prepared by the
        assistants of the Vice Chancellor and the deans as well as give his/her remarks regarding the same.
    9.  Supervise the regulations of the work of groups, committees and study advisory councils.
    10. Exercise supervision to ensure and protect the security and confidentiality of electronic information
      and their backups.
    11. Approve the formation of various committees related to the works of electronic systems and student affairs.
    12. Contribute to preparing the draft of annual academic calendar.
    13. Follow up the approval of policies and plans of the on-the-job training program.
    14. Prepare and submit an annual report on the work progress, identify challenges and propose
      development plans related to the work progress.
    15. Any other duties assigned to him and that are related to his/her work competences.

The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services shall undertake his/her
competences via the following divisions:
    1- Coordination and Follow-Up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Deputy Vice Chancellor, prepare the same to be submitted
        to the Deputy Vice Chancellor and implement his/her directives on such topics and reports.
    3.  Organize the schedules, meetings and communications of the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
    4.  Receive visitors and respond to their queries as well as receive their requests and refer the same to
       the competent organizational divisions.
    5. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office in
       accordance with the applicable procedures in this regard.
    6.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
    7.  Supervise and review incoming and outgoing mail of the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office and
       ensure its delivery to concerned entities.
    8.  Apply modern management methods in the area of coordination and follow-up.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 37 ---
2- Deanship of Student Affairs: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to Deanship of Student Affairs as well as
       follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to student affairs as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Supervise the development of the integrated personality of the University’s students in various
       aspects in alignment with the University’s objectives and vision.
    4.  Supervise the provision of the best student, counselling, educational, social, academic, health and
       other services.
    5.  Promote the programs that foster voluntary social work as well as follow up such programs to
       develop them in alignment with the University’s objectives.
    6.  Link students with the society, affirm their national belonging and maintain their Islamic identity.
    7.  Promote students’ awareness about the rights and duties set forth in the applicable rules and
       regulations at the University.
    8. Review the plan of annual student activities in coordination with the concerned entities at the
       University as well as submit such plan for approval.
    9.  Participate in creating opportunities for on-the-job training and promote related mechanisms of
      communication and partnership with the public and private sectors.
    10. Develop students’ skills which are necessary for coping with the requirements of labor market in
       partnership with the concerned entities inside and outside the University.
    11. Coordinate with the University’s divisions to obtain feedback on the on-the-job training as well as
       prepare the studies related to training and employment.
    12. Prepare an annual report for the Deanship, identify challenges, propose development plans and
       submit the same to the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Deanship’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Deanship of Student Affairs shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Student Activities Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to activities as well as follow up the
       implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to student affairs as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3. Review the plan of student activities in coordination with the University’s divisions as well as
       organize joint events between the students of the University’s branches and its colleges.
    4.  Coordinate the participation of student delegations in student events at the internal and external
        levels as well as contribute to coordinating annual trips.
    5.  Foster partnership with the institutions related to student activities.
    6.  Propose rewards and incentives for the best-performing students in activities.
    7.  Prepare an annual report on the Section’s work, identify challenges, propose development plans
        related to work progress and submit the same to the Student Affairs Dean.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 38 ---
B- Guidance and Counselling Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to guidance and counselling as well as follow
      up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to guidance and counselling
       as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3. Examine the phenomena and challenges related to students as well as work on designing suitable
       guidance programs to assist students.
    4.  Create a database for students which includes their economic and social conditions.
    5.  Promote national, cultural and Islamic principles in addition to the sense of belonging to the
       University through raising students’ awareness about the stipulated rights and duties.
    6.  Develop students’ personalities through guidance programs as well as assist them in coping with
       the requirements of university life.
    7. Make students acquire the skills that assist them in succeeding in their study as well as their
      academic and social lives.
    8.  Promote joint cooperation with the entities related to students’ guidance.
    9.  Prepare an annual report on the Section’s work, identify challenges, propose development plans
        related to work progress and submit the same to the Student Affairs Dean.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Training and Career Guidance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to training and career guidance as well as
       follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to training and career
       guidance as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Follow up the use of electronic systems and the programs related to the on-the-job training as well
       as contribute to develop the same.
    4.  Propose the development of information management related to alignment of career opportunities
        for students and the skills necessary for the labor market as well as educate students about the same.
    5.  Supervise the holding of exhibitions related to career opportunities.
    6.  Supervise the development of mechanisms to follow up graduates and submit the reports related to
       the same.
    7.  Identify financial needs as well as training opportunities available for students for the on-the-job
        training in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Examine the phenomena and challenges related to training and career guidance as well as submit
      development proposals in collaboration with the concerned sections.
    9.  Follow up and develop the skills introduced into the labor market with regard to training as well as
       organize training workshops in collaboration with the concerned entities.
    10. Prepare an annual report on the Section’s work, identify challenges, propose development plans
        related to work progress and submit the same to the Student Affairs Dean.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 39 ---
3- Deanship of Admissions and Registration: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Deanship of Admissions and
       Registration as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the
      competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Deanship of
      Admissions and Registration as well as propose their development in coordination with the
       concerned sections.
    3.  Propose admission conditions and plan in light of the University’s plan and available resources in
       coordination with the concerned entities inside and outside the University.
    4.  Propose policies and procedures to keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in
       coordination with the University’s concerned divisions.
    5.  Provide information and statistics about students’ data related to study programs and academic
       degrees.
    6.  Supervise the preparation of annual academic calendar in coordination with the relevant divisions
       as well as approve such calendar.
    7.  Propose policies and procedures related to graduation ceremonies at the University’s branches and
        colleges.
    8.  Approve registration plans and exams’ tables for each semester.
    9.  Prepare the annual report of the Deanship and its achievements, identify challenges and propose the
      development plans related to the work progress at the University.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Deanship’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Deanship of Admissions and Registration shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Admissions Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Admissions Section as well as follow
      up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Admissions Section
       as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Coordinate with entities from outside the University with regard to admissions at the national level
       (Currently, the Higher Education Admission Centre).
    4.  Propose graduation  policies and procedures  at the University’s  level as well as supervise
       graduations at the University’s branches and colleges.
    5.  Develop admission plan and conditions in light of the University’s plan and available resources in
       coordination with the concerned entities at the University.
    6.  Supervise the mechanism to keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in
       coordination with the competent entities.
    7.  Supervise the plan to receive students of parallel programs in coordination with various divisions
       of the University.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of the Admissions Section and its achievements, identify challenges and
       propose the development plans related to the work progress at the Section.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 40 ---
B- Registration Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Registration Section as well as follow
      up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Registration Section
       as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Supervise the mechanism to keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in
       coordination with the competent entities.
    4.  Supervise the registration plan at the University, submit it for approval, assess and follow up its
       implementation in coordination with various divisions of the University.
    5.  Supervise the plan to receive students of parallel programs in coordination with various divisions
       of the University.
    6.  Prepare the annual report of the Registration Section and its achievements, identify challenges and
       propose the development plans related to the work progress at the Section.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Timetabling and Examination Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Timetabling and Examination Section
       as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent
         entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Timetabling and
      Examination Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
        sections.
    3.  Supervise the preparation of study schedules, examination schedules and invigilation at the
       University as well as ensure their inclusion in the electronic system.
    4.  Participate with the competent entities in creating databases for statistical data and information.
    5.  Classify the University’s data and statistics, show them in the annual publications and take measures
        to store and retrieve such data and statistics.
    6.  Prepare the annual report of the Timetabling and Examination Section and  its achievements
       according to the operating and executive plan, identify challenges and propose development
      working plans.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 41 ---
4- Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Centre as well as follow up the
       implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3. Manage and develop software and computerized systems at the University as well as maintain them
       permanently in coordination with various divisions of the University.
    4.  Prepare plans and a budget to provide and develop technical and technological projects as well as
       follow up their implementation to ensure the quality of their provision.
    5.  Develop and manage the University’s website according to the applicable policies as well as provide
       adequate technical support.
    6.  Follow up all electronic licenses to the systems and software at the University via a unified database.
    7.  Maintain technical collections at the University’s buildings.
    8.  Develop and assess E-learning platforms of the University.
    9.  Develop and update the central databases of the University and maintain their confidentiality.
    10. Provide electronic resources to the University’s facilities as needed and supervise their maintenance.
    11. Protect and monitor the University’s network using network protection technologies as well as
       ensure its continued operation.
    12. Prepare the annual report of the Centre and its achievements according to the operating and
       executive plan, identify challenges and propose development working plans.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre shall exercise its competences via the
following sections:
A- Systems Development and Support Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Systems Development and Support
       Section as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent
         entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Section as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Coordinate with the University’s divisions to develop information systems and work on linking
      them with various information systems’ networks as part of the approved policies.
    4.  Develop secure systems and software to facilitate communication and continuity of work at the University.
    5.  Update all developed systems and software on a continuous basis to ensure their operation efficiently.
    6.  Organize secure and integrated databases for all systems and software available at the University.
    7. Cope with the development in the field of programming via using programming languages that serve
       the University’s systems in an efficient and secure manner.
    8.  Prepare and update a manual for the users and programmers of developed systems to facilitate their
       use and development.
    9.  Exercise  technical  supervision, cooperate with  other  sections  at  the University  to achieve
        integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
    10. Prepare the annual report of the Section and its achievements according to the operating and
       executive plan, identify challenges and propose development working plans.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 42 ---
B- Networks and Data Centre Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Networks and Data Centre Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Section as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Adjust the settings of the University’s network and Data Centre in line with the technical and
        security standards and policies.
    4.  Protect and monitor the University’s network as well as ensure its continued operation.
    5.  Provide technical support to the University’s divisions with regard to central systems.
    6.  Analyze the causes of problems that take place upon supply as well as prepare reports and take
       necessary measures to avoid any similar problems in the future.
    7.  Exercise  technical  supervision, cooperate with  other  sections  at  the University  to achieve
        integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of the Section and its achievements according to the operating and
       executive plan, identify challenges and propose development working plans.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- E-learning Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the E-learning Section as well as follow up
       the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the E-learning Section as
       well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Prepare plans and a budget to provide and develop technical and technological projects as well as
       follow up their implementation to ensure the quality of their provision.
    4.  Follow up all electronic licenses to the systems and software at the University via a unified database.
    5.  Provide electronic resources to the University’s facilities as needed and supervise their maintenance.
    6.  Propose the technical standards of the University’s needs, identify and classify them as well as
       follow up their provision in coordination with the concerned entities.
    7.  Prepare the annual report of the Centre and its achievements according to the operating and
       executive plan, identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 43 ---
Third: Deputy Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and Innovation
Deputy Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and Innovation is
competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s strategic plan related to postgraduate studies, scientific
       research and innovation.
    2.  Supervise the preparation and implementation of the operational plans of his/her affiliated divisions.
    3.  Apply quality system in the affiliated divisions.
    4.  Propose and issue administrative decisions according to the powers and mandates stipulated in the
        rules and regulations.
    5.  Supervise all affiliated divisions.
    6.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules and regulations with regard to postgraduate studies, scientific
       research and innovation.
    7.  Supervise the development of the policies related to postgraduate studies, scientific research and
       innovation at the University.
    8. Work on providing an integrated environment for research and innovative.
    9.  Align the fields of scientific research and innovation with national priorities and produce research
       outputs of high quality and which achieve global standards.
    10. Examine the recommendations, which are prepared by the assistants of the Vice Chancellor at the
       branches and the deans; each within his/her area of competence as well as giving remarks regarding
       the same.
    11. Foster the relationship between the University and research institutions as well as economic sectors
        internally and externally.
    12. Supervise the provision and diversification of funding resources for scientific researches so as to
       ensure their sustainability and achieve the Strategic Plans of the University.
    13. Develop the activities related entrepreneurship and supervise the establishment of business Centres
        affiliated to the University as well as set budgets necessary for such Centres.
    14. Develop scientific research at the University so as to ensure its contribution to the domestic product
      and boost the ranking of the Sultanate of Oman on global indices.
    15. Submit an annual report to the Vice Chancellor on the work progress in the affiliated divisions.
    16. Supervise the development and follow-up of activities related to the consultancies provided by the
       University.
    17. Form various committees related to the work of scientific research, innovation and entrepreneurship.
    18. Any other duties assigned by the Vice Chancellor and that are within the Deputy of Postgraduate
        Studies, Scientific Research and Innovation competences.

--- Page 44 ---
Third: The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and Innovation
shall undertake his competences via the following divisions:
    1- Coordination and Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Deputy Vice Chancellor, prepare the same to be submitted
        to the Deputy Vice Chancellor and implement his/her directives on such topics and reports.
    3.  Organize the schedules, meetings and communications of the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
    4.  Receive visitors and respond to their queries as well as receive their requests and refer the same to
       the competent organizational divisions.
    5. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office in
       accordance with the applicable procedures in this regard.
    6.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
    7.  Supervise and review incoming and outgoing mail of the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office and
       ensure its delivery to concerned entities.
    8.  Apply modern management methods in the area of coordination and follow-up.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

2- Deanship of Research and Consultation: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Deanship, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the implementation of quality standards in the work of the Deanship’s divisions and
       propose their development.
    4.  Follow up and implement research programs as well as research proposals approved at the University.
    5. Examine the final reports of the research projects at the University.
    6.  Submit proposals to develop the rules, regulations and policies related to research and consultation.
    7.  Contribute to developing performance indicators which support research empowerment and
       consultation as well as raise the efficiency of research and consultation services at the University.
    8.  Support research and development according to national priorities, innovation indicators and global
       competitiveness as well as find various research funding sources.
    9.  Supervise the promotion of local, regional and international research partnerships with industry and
       technology sectors.
    10. Follow up the evaluation procedures of research projects as well as hold scientific conferences and
       seminars in addition to other research activities in coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Follow up sabbatical procedures and academic promotions.
    12. Coordinate with the University’s divisions to provide periodicals and references to support research diversity
        as well as supervise the issuance, publishing and distribution of the University’s scientific periodicals.
    13. Supervise the development of executive plans for consultations and their programs at the University as well
        as direct such plans to serve economic development and the objectives of sustainable development.
    14. Promote consultations in the sectors supporting economic diversification, make the University’s
       consulting capabilities known and raise awareness about consulting activities.
    15. Develop the knowledge and consulting investment as well as direct the same according to the sectors
       of national priorities and their approved indicators.
    16. Prepare the databases related to consultation services, researches and scientific publishing as well
       as provide reports, statistics and indicators in this regard.
    17. Propose professional development programs for the Deanship’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    18. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 45 ---
The Deanship of Research and Consultation shall exercise its competences through the following sections:
A- Research Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their
       development.
    4.  Follow up and implement research programs as well as research proposals approved at the
       University.
    5. Examine the final reports of research projects at the University.
    6.  Submit proposals to develop the rules, regulations and policies related to research.
    7.  Contribute to developing performance indicators which support research empowerment.
    8.  Support research and development according to national priorities, innovation indicators and global
       competitiveness as well as find various research funding sources.
    9.  Supervise the promotion of local, regional and international research partnerships with industry and
       technology sectors.
    10. Follow up the arbitration procedures of research projects as well as hold scientific conferences and
       seminars in addition to other research activities in coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Follow up sabbatical procedures and academic promotions.
    12. Prepare the reports, statistics and databases related to researches and scientific publishing as well
       as indicators of research performance and link them with the National Database.
    13. Coordinate with the University’s divisions to provide periodicals and references to support research
        diversity as well as supervise the issuance, publishing and distribution of the University’s scientific
        periodicals.
    14. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Consultation Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their development.
    4.  Supervise the development of executive plans for consultations and their programs at the University as well
        as direct such plans to serve economic development and the objectives of sustainable development.
    5.  Promote consultations in the sectors supporting economic diversification, make the University’s
       consulting capabilities known and raise awareness about consulting activities.
    6.  Develop the knowledge and consulting investment as well as direct the same according to the sectors
       of national priorities and their approved indicators.
    7.  Develop performance indicators to raise the efficiency of consulting services at the University and
       monitor the same in annual reports.
    8.  Prepare the reports and statistics related to the annual consulting services of the University.
    9.  Prepare the databases related to consulting services.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 46 ---
3- Deanship of Postgraduate Studies: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Deanship, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Deanship’s divisions and propose
        their development.
    4.  Follow up the enforcements of the rules and regulations as well as postgraduate studies’ programs
        at the University.
    5.  Coordinate with the University’s relevant divisions about postgraduate studies’ plans and programs.
    6.  Follow up the admission procedures of postgraduate studies’ students at the University.
    7.  Follow up the work of committees concerned with discussing theses at the University according to
       the procedures regulating the same.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Deanship’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Deanship of Postgraduate Studies shall exercise its competences through the following sections:
A- Postgraduate Programs Planning and Development Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Plan academic programs and link them with development and the needs of labor market.
    3.  Assess and develop academic programs as well as submit recommendations regarding them to
       Postgraduate Studies Department.
    4.  Design a theoretical framework for future skills in line with the Oman Vision 2040 Document and
       the global trend.
    5.  Benefit from and exchange experiences with global universities with regard to the Section’s work.
    6.  Coordinate with foreign residents to plan, assess and plan postgraduate programs.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Deanship’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 47 ---
B- Postgraduate Programs Academic Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Supervise the introduction of the summer semester at the University’s branches and colleges.
    3.  Supervise academic audit process.
    4.  Submit proposals related to the amendment of academic regulations.
    5.  Prepare the academic calendar as well as follow up and ensure complying and acting thereby.
    6.  Supervise the standardization of systems in academic programs with competent entities.
    7.  Prepare studies on the performance of students in academic programs to track their levels.
    8.  Follow up and ensure the implementation of policies and procedures related to scientific integrity
        at the University.
    9.  Propose the policies and procedures related to the requirements of licenses.
    10. Follow up on obtaining licenses for academic programs.
    11. Propose plans to obtain the licenses and accreditation for programs in coordination with the
       concerned entities.
    12. Communicate and cooperate with the local, regional and global bodies in the area of accreditation
       of academic programs.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Postgraduate Studies Assessment Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Propose the systems, standards and frameworks so as to assess academic activities in collaboration
       with various divisions of the University.
    3.  Develop the policies and procedures related to the performance assessment of postgraduate students
       as well as follow up such policies and procedures in collaboration with the competent entities.
    4.  Submit periodic reports on the performance of postgraduate programs to the Postgraduate Studies
      Dean.
    5.  Organize the assessment process of postgraduate programs (Learning Environment, Staff Member
      and Course) with the competent entities.
    6.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    7.  Follow up the work of committees concerned with discussing theses at the University according to
       the regulating procedures.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 48 ---
4- Entrepreneurship and Industrial Relations Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Centre’s divisions and propose
        their development.
    4.  Supervise and follow up the implementation of the operational plans of the Entrepreneurship and
        Industrial Relations Sections at the branches, colleges and academies.
    5.  Provide an innovative environment to develop entrepreneurship and foster industrial relations with
       production sectors.
    6.  Follow up the application of the rules and regulations related to entrepreneurship and cooperation
       with industrial sectors.
    7.  Consider the proposals related to entrepreneurship and industrial relations in line with national
        priorities as well as prepare reports regarding the same.
    8.  Supervise the sustainability and diversification of funding sources so as to ensure achieving the
       objectives of the University’s Strategic Plan.
    9.  Build a database for partnership with the public and private sectors with regard to entrepreneurship
      and industrial relations.
    10. Promote effective partnership with research and development sectors in universities and the local
      and international industrial sector institutions.
    11. Supervise the formation of various committees related to entrepreneurship and industrial relations.
    12. Develop performance indicators that contribute to raising the efficiency of divisions related to
       entrepreneurship and strengthen their connection with business and industry sectors.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Entrepreneurship and Industrial Relations Centre shall exercise its competences through the
following sections:
A- Entrepreneurship Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their development.
    4.  Supervise the activities of Entrepreneurship Sections at the branches, colleges and academies.
    5.  Consider the proposals related to entrepreneurship in line with national priorities as well as prepare
        reports regarding the same.
    6.  Contribute  to strengthening the  role of SMEs  to  create jobs and work opportunities  that
      accommodate graduates.
    7.  Contribute to promoting partnership with the institutions of the public and private sectors in the area
       of entrepreneurship.
    8.  Contribute to finding funding sources by the industrial sector and partners in business sectors.
    9.  Support the emerging student companies through providing them with various facilities.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 49 ---
B- Industrial Relations Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their
       development.
    4.  Build and update a database for industrial enterprises and the activities they undertake.
    5.  Follow up industrial projects  at the University, highlight  their results and market them in
       coordination with the relevant sections, departments and centres.
    6. Make the opportunities available in the industrial sector known to researchers, innovators and
       entrepreneurs.
    7.  Organize awareness events as well as market and foster the culture of partnership and knowledge
       investment at the University.
    8.  Provide funding sources by the industrial sector and partners in business sectors.
    9.  Exchange visits with the industrial sector enterprises and organize joint events.
    10. Build various partnerships with the industrial sector which support national priorities and the
       research and innovation system.
    11. Foster the relation with research and development sectors in industrial enterprises.
    12. Contribute to implementing  digital transformation projects as well as monitor technological
      developments related to technologies locally and internationally.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 50 ---
5- Innovation and Technology Transfer Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Centre’s divisions and propose
        their development.
    4.  Supervise the enforcement of the regulations and policies related to intellectual property and
       technology transfer at the University.
    5.  Supervise the development of innovation and technology transfer programs at the University in
       coordination with the competent entities.
    6.  Supervise the funding plans related to innovation and technology transfer at the University.
    7.  Provide a mechanism to market innovative projects and patents as well as find incubators for such
        projects in industry and technology sectors.
    8.  Build strategic partnerships with industry sectors in the fields of innovation and technology transfer
        to support the development of student efficiencies and young scientists.
    9.  Develop performance indicators that contribute to raising the efficiency and competitiveness of
       research and innovation outputs and link them with various business sectors.
    10. Prepare plans necessary to get the community’s individuals involved in the affairs of innovation and
        creativity as well as spread awareness of the culture of innovation, intellectual property and
       technology transfer.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Innovation and Technology Transfer Centre shall exercise its competences through the following sections:

A- Innovation Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their
       development.
    3.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    4.  Follow up the implementation of intellectual property policies in various divisions of the University,
        verify their effectiveness and work on their development.
    5.  Follow up the development plans of innovation programs in various divisions of the University.
    6.  Follow up the funding plans of innovation programs in various divisions of the University.
    7.  Provide a mechanism to market innovative projects and patents as well as find incubators for such
        projects in industry and technology sectors.
    8.  Contribute to building strategic partnerships with industry sectors in the fields of innovation to
       support the development of student efficiencies and young scientists.
    9.  Develop performance indicators to raise the efficiency and competitiveness of research and
       innovation outputs and link them with various business sectors.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 51 ---
B- Technology Transfer Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
    2.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their
       development.
    3.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    4.  Follow up the implementation of technology transfer policies in various divisions of the University,
        verify their effectiveness and work on their development.
    5.  Follow up the development plans of technology transfer programs in various divisions of the
       University.
    6.  Follow up the funding plans of technology transfer programs in various divisions of the University.
    7.  Contribute to building strategic partnerships with industry sectors in the fields of technology
        transfer.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 52 ---
Fourth: Deputy Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Deputy Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs: he is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to academic affairs as well as follow up their
       implementation after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Follow up the implementation and development of academic programs.
    3.  Follow up the application of quality assurance standards.
    4.  Supervise his affiliated divisions and follow up the work progress in the deanships and academic
      programs at the branches and colleges.
    5.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules and regulations related to academic affairs, review the same
      and propose their development in coordination with the assistants of the Vice Chancellor and deans.
    6.  Foster cooperation with various higher education institutions as well as professional societies locally
      and internationally.
    7. Form various committees related to the work of academic affairs.
    8.  Prepare the annual report and what was achieved according to the operational and executive plans.
    9. Any other duties assigned to him by the Vice Chancellor and that fall within his competences.

The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs shall undertake his competences via the following
divisions:

    1- Coordination and Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Deputy Vice Chancellor, prepare the same to be submitted
        to the Deputy Vice Chancellor and implement his directives on such topics and reports.
    3.  Organize the schedules, meetings and communications of the Deputy Vice Chancellor.
    4.  Receive visitors and respond to their queries as well as receive their requests and refer the same to
       the competent organizational divisions.
    5. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office in
       accordance with the applicable procedures in this regard.
    6.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
    7.  Supervise and review incoming and outgoing mail of the Deputy Vice Chancellor’s Office and
       ensure its delivery to concerned entities.
    8.  Apply modern management methods in the area of coordination and follow-up.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 53 ---
2-  Deanships of Colleges: (Deanship of Engineering and Technology College, Deanship of Creative
    Industries College, Deanship of Economics and Business Administration College, Deanship of
   Computing and Information Sciences College, Deanship of Applied Sciences and Pharmacy College),
    they are competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the academic programs’ plan as well as follow up its implementation
        after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Exercise academic supervision on the implementation of academic programs at the branches.
    3. Review and propose the development of academic programs, including study plans, objectives,
       educational outputs, curricula and credit hours.
    4.  Ensure the enforcement of quality control standards in managing academic programs.
    5.  Contribute to preparing and developing tools and standards to measure the assessment process
       followed for the academic program in collaboration with the Academic Programs Department.
    6.  Coordinate with  the  local and  international academic  institutions with  the purpose  of
       cooperating in information exchange and development of programs.
    7.  Verify the fulfilment of specialized academic or professional accreditation of academic
      programs locally and internationally.
    8.  Prepare an annual report on the work progress at the College, identify challenges, propose
      development plans and submit the same to the Deputy Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs.
    9.  Propose new programs by following the Programs’ Review and Development Framework,
       including the needs for resources as well as propose the gradual closure plan of previous
       programs.
    10. Propose training activities to develop the capabilities and skills of the academic and supporting
        faculty members.
    11. Propose  professional development programs  for competent persons and follow up  the
       implementation of such programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 54 ---
    3- Continuous Education and Community Service Centre: it is competent to undertake the
       following:
        1.  Contribute to the preparation and implementation of continuous education programs.
        2.  Follow up the application of quality assurance standards in various divisions of the University.
        3.  Build sustainable partnerships between the University and public and private institutions.
        4.  Develop the Centre’s programs on a continuous basis in collaboration with the relevant
            divisions.
        5.  Prepare the feasibility study for continuous education and community service programs which
           contribute to finding sources of funding that achieve the Centre’s objectives.
        6.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
           reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
        7.  Supervise the spread of culture and increased awareness of the importance of continuous
          education and community service.
        8.  Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
          programs in coordination with the competent entities.
        9.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
       10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Continuous Education and Community Service Centre shall exercise its competences via the
following Sections:
   A- Continuous Education Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
        1.  Contribute to the preparation and implementation of continuous education programs.
        2.  Participate in building sustainable partnerships between the University and public and private
            institutions.
        3.  Participate in developing the Centre’s programs on a continuous basis in collaboration with the
           relevant divisions.
        4.  Prepare the feasibility study for continuous education programs which contribute to finding
           sources of funding that achieve the Centre’s objectives.
        5.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
           reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
        6.  Supervise the spread of culture and awareness of the importance of continuous education.
        7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
          programs in coordination with the competent entities.
        8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

   B- Community Service Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
        1.  Contribute to the preparation and implementation of community service programs.
         2.  Participate  in building  sustainable  partnerships between  the University and public and  private
              institutions.
        3.  Participate in developing the Centre’s programs on a continuous basis in collaboration with the
           relevant divisions.
        4.  Prepare the feasibility study for community service programs which contribute to finding
           sources of funding that achieve the Centre’s objectives.
        5.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
           reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
        6.  Supervise the spread of culture and awareness of the importance of community service.
        7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
          programs in coordination with the competent entities.
        8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 55 ---
4- Preparatory Studies Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
        reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
    2.  Exercise technical supervision on the implementation and development of preparatory studies
      programs at all the University’s branches and colleges.
    3.  Prepare unified study plans for preparatory studies programs at all branches and colleges as well
       as assess the effectiveness of such programs.
    4.  Develop the mechanism necessary for developing the educational curricula of all preparatory studies
       programs at the branches and colleges as well as follow up the implementation of such programs.
    5.  Unify the standards and specifications of examinations and preparation of  tests for the
       preparatory  studies programs  at  all branches and  colleges  as  well  as  follow up  the
       implementation of such programs.
    6.  Analyze and examine student results so as to develop assessment standards and specifications
       as well as ensure the effectiveness of examinations and improve the learning process in general.
    7.  Participate in providing required academic and research consultations as well as enhance
      communication with the beneficiaries according to the University’s Communication Policy.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Preparatory Studies Centre shall exercise its competences via the following Sections:
A- Curriculum Review and Development Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the Centre’s operational plan according to the University’s Strategic
       Plan as well as follow up the implementation of such operational plan and submit periodic
        reports regarding it.
    2.  Propose the plans of educational curricula for all programs according to the time plan specified
        for each semester and follow up the implementation of such plans at the branches and colleges.
    3. Review and develop the curricula of preparatory studies programs according to feedback reports
       received from preparatory studies sections at the University.
    4.  Develop and implement training programs related to the application and development of curricula for
        preparatory studies sections at the University so as to raise their efficient completion.
    5.  Prepare the educational and  practical material  for  theoretical and  practical teaching  in
       coordination with preparatory programs sections at the University.
    6.  Foster relations with higher education institutions to follow up scientific developments in the
        field of curricula and teaching methods.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 56 ---
   B- Examinations and Assessment Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
        1.  Contribute to preparing the Centre’s operational plan according to the University’s Strategic
          Plan as well as follow up the implementation of such operational plan and submit periodic
           reports regarding it.
        2.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with international standards as well as
         measure the quality of preparatory studies programs to improve performance.
        3. Review and develop examinations’ correction standards for all preparatory studies according to
          approved specifications.
        4.  Propose a working mechanism to prepare unified examinations for all preparatory studies
          programs according to approved standards.
        5. Review and develop examinations’ systems and specifications according to learning outputs as
          well as follow up the implementation of the same.
        6.  Set up and develop an electronic database so as to ensure confidentiality of examinations.
        7.  Foster relations with higher education institutions to follow up scientific developments in the
            field of examinations and assessment for all programs.
        8.  Propose and implement training programs on various assessment methods for preparatory
           studies sections at the University so as to raise their efficient completion.
        9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
          programs in coordination with the competent entities.
       10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

5- Academic Programs Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
        reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
    2.  Review, update and unify specifications and standards required to identify resource needs at the
       branches and colleges in coordination with the relevant entities.
    3.  Propose long- and short-term plans in the field of academic programs and their development.
    4. Review and develop the policies and procedures related to academic programs.
    5.  Participate in preparing and developing the Programs’ Review and Development Framework at the
       University.
    6.  Approve the proposal of gradual closure plan of previous programs.
    7.  Provide necessary support in the field of accreditation for the concerned entities.
    8. Review and unify the standards and specifications related to assessment.
    9. Review the recommendations and proposals related to licenses and work on their development.
    10. Communicate and cooperate with local, regional and global institutions in the field of obtaining
        licenses.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 57 ---
 The Academic Programs Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Programs Planning and Development Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
 1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
     reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
 2.  Plan academic programs and link them with development and the needs of labor market in
     collaboration with the relevant entities.
 3.  Assess and develop academic programs according to the approved policies and procedures in
     collaboration with the competent entities.
 4.  Benefit from and exchange experiences with global universities with regard to academic programs.
 5.  Participate in local and international competitions in collaboration with other entities.
 6.  Carry out surveys to measure the skills of targeted segments and submit periodic reports.
 7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
    programs in coordination with the competent entities.
 8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Academic Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
 1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
     reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
 2.  Supervise the introduction of summer semester at the University’s branches and colleges.
 3.  Supervise academic audit process at the University’s branches and colleges.
 4.  Submit proposals related to amendment of academic regulations.
 5.  Participate in preparing the academic calendar as well as follow up and ensure complying and acting
     thereby.
 6.  Prepare studies on the performance of students in academic programs to track their levels.
 7.  Follow up and ensure the implementation of policies and procedures related to scientific integrity
     in all divisions of the University.
 8.  Supervise the standardization of systems in academic programs with the competent entities.
 9.  Propose the policies and plans related to the requirements of licenses as well as provide support
    necessary for obtaining licenses.
 10. Propose the plans and procedures necessary for raising the efficiency of academic sections with
    regard to the requirements of licenses.
 11. Communicate and cooperate with the local, regional and global bodies in the area of accreditation
    of academic programs.
 12. Design a theoretical framework for future skills in line with the Oman Vision 2040 Document and
     the global trend.
 13. Explore best practices and cooperate with international think tanks to identify future skills.
 14. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
    programs in coordination with the competent entities.
 15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 58 ---
C- Assessment Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
        reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
    2.  Propose the systems, standards and frameworks related to assessment of academic activities in
       coordination with the concerned entities.
    3.  Follow up the implementation of regulations and policies related to preparation of examinations as
       well as follow up their performance in coordination with the competent entities.
    4.  Organize the assessment process with regard to academic programs (Learning Environment, Staff
     Member and Course) with the competent entities.
    5.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    6. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Future Sciences Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
        reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
    2.  Explore future sciences and identify their importance for the local and international labor markets.
    3.  Create a competitive environment by including  future  sciences and  specializations  in  the
       University’s programs.
    4.  Participate in promoting the learning of industrial revolutions’ principles as well as coping with
        future technologies.
    5.  Participate in aligning the requirements of future sciences with the academic programs introduced
        at the University.
    6.  Submit research proposals in the fields of future sciences to the Academic Programs Department.
    7.  Participate in conducting surveys for future sciences that must be included in the University’s
      programs as well as submit periodic reports on their conformity and success in addition to the
       resources required.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 59 ---
Assistant Vice Chancellor at the Branch
Assistant Vice Chancellor at the Branch: he is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the Strategic Plan of the Branch as well as supervise the preparation and
       implementation of operational plans of his/her affiliated divisions.
    2.  Propose and issue administrative decisions according to the powers and mandates stipulated in the
        rules and regulations.
    3.  Supervise all his/her affiliated divisions as well as follow up the application of quality system in
       such divisions.
    4.  Supervise the draft-estimated budget of the University’s branch as well as submit the same for
       approval.
    5.  Maintain the movable and immovable property of the University’s branch and take necessary
      measure to do so.
    6.  Foster the relation with community institutions and beneficiaries.
    7.  Enhance cooperation with universities, educational and professional institutions and economic
        sectors both domestically and abroad after taking necessary approvals.
    8.  Submit an annual report to the Vice Chancellor on the work progress in his affiliated divisions.
    9. Form various committees related to the work of the University’s branch.
    10. Enforce regulations and the decisions of the Academic Council and other councils.
    11. Supervise the learning process, examinations and overall performance as well as ensure good work
       progress at the branch.
    12. Examine  the  reports  of  external  examiners  and  assessment  teams  as  well  as  submit
      recommendations regarding the same to the Academic Council after being discussed at the branch’s
        council.
    13. Consider the branch’s needs of human and financial resources as well as submit recommendations
       regarding the same to the competent entities at the University.

    14. Approve sending the branch’s employees on official missions inside the Sultanate.
    15. Approve the job performance evaluation reports for the branch’s employees.
    16. Accept all types of leave requests according to prescribed rules except for private and study leaves
        for the branch’s employees as well as assign other employees to handle the work of those taking
       leaves during their absence.
    17. Accept paying the cash allowance for the balance of regular leaves due for non-Omani faculty
      members whose service are terminated at the branch.
    18. Impose the penalty of warning or salary deduction for a period not exceeding (3) days per one time
      and not exceeding (15) days per year for the branch’s employees.
    19. Submit the minutes of the branch’s sessions to the Vice Chancellor within one week from their
       approval date.
    20. Propose the concessions and subsidies that will be given to students and submit the same to the Vice
       Chancellor.
    21. Any other duties assigned to him and that fall within his competences.

--- Page 60 ---
The Assistant Vice Chancellor at the Branch shall exercise his competences via the following
divisions:
First: following sections:
A- Communication and Media Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare and implement the annual media plan for the activities of the University’s branch as well
    as share such plans with the concerned entities.
2. Manage the media content on the website and social media of the University’s branch.
3.  Prepare the media readable, visual and audio content released by the University’s branch and
    coordinate regarding such content with the concerned entities.
4.  Organize media events held by the University’s branch in coordination with the concerned entities
   from inside and outside the University.
5.  Coordinate with the concerned entities for the media coverage of events held by the University’s
   branch as well as conduct press and media interviews and activities.
6.  Prepare and execute media and marketing campaigns according to annual plans and programs in
    coordination with the concerned entities.
7.  Follow up all materials published about the University’s branch in mass media as well as prepare
    appropriate responses, if required, in coordination with the competent persons at the University.
8.  Coordinate with the concerned organizations in common topics so as to ensure unifying the
   government media messages in line with the official measures.
9.  Stimulate and manage internal communication activities to promote the institutional loyalty of
   employees.
10. Contribute to digital transformation as well as improvement of services provided by the University’s branch.
11. Communicate with media organizations about the topics they discuss so as to clarify facts and
   provide them with information to serve the University’s orientation.
12. Formulate and edit the text content including press releases and publications as well as their
   requirements which comprise proofreading and media translation.
13. Prepare, design and implement the media content according to the media plan such as the designs,
   images, videos and graphics, etc.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Public Relations Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
2.  Supervise the reception and bidding farewell to the official guests of the Assistant Vice Chancellor
    in coordination with competent entities.
3.  Prepare and organize the receptions pertaining to the Assistant Vice Chancellor as well as take
   necessary action regarding them.
4.  Participate in the events related to public relations inside and outside the Sultanate.
5. Communicate and coordinate with the relevant entities with regard to public relations.
6.  Propose training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
   such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
7.  Supervise the arrangements necessary for receiving and hosting the branch’s visitors and prepare
    the programs of their visits in coordination with competent entities.
8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
9.  Submit periodic reports on the Section’s achievements.
10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 61 ---
C- Coordination and Follow-Up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation, submit reports on
   achievements made, challenges faced and development proposals.
2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the Assistant Vice Chancellor, prepare the same to be
   submitted to the Assistant Vice Chancellor and implement his directives on such topics and reports.
3.  Register outgoing letters and ensure their delivery to the concerned entities via approved channels.
4.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
5.  Arrange the appointments, meetings and communications of the Assistant Vice Chancellor.
6. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the Assistant Vice Chancellor in accordance
   with the applicable procedures.
7.  Follow up the topics sent to the Assistant Vice Chancellor’s Office and refer the same to the
   concerned entities.
8.  Follow up the instructions of the Assistant Vice Chancellor with regard to the work of the
    University’s branch.
9.  Provide data and information that assist the Assistant Vice Chancellor in taking decisions on the
    topics submitted to him.
10. Prepare a program to follow up the topics referred by the Assistant Vice Chancellor to the branch’s
    divisions.
11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Mail and Documents Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation, submit reports
   on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
2.  Prepare the document classification system, tables of their retention periods, procedures necessary
    for documentation management in collaboration with the National Records and Archives Authority.
3.  Provide technical support to employees with regard to the application of rules and regulations
    related to documents.
4.  Transfer archives to the National Records and Archives Authority as well as destroy the documents
   whose legal retention period had expired according to the prescribed rules.
5.  Register the outgoing and incoming mail according to the numerical and chronological sequence.
6.  Participate in the events related to mail and documentation management inside and outside the
    Sultanate of Oman.
7.  Deliver the original incoming mail to the concerned divisions at the University’s branch.
8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
9.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 62 ---
E- Quality Assurance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
    reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
2.  Disseminate the concepts of distinction and creativity, share the best administrative and professional
    practices as well as ensure their application at the University’s branch.
3.  Develop and follow up the implementation of the approved plan for quality and obtain approval
   from the concerned entities.
4.  Follow up the application of the quality system and establish work mechanisms in various divisions
    of the University’s branch.
5.  Offer advice and assistance to various divisions of the branch with regard to the implementation of
    quality systems and applications.
6.  Supervise the improvement in the quality of academic, administrative, financial and technical
   performance as well as foster quality culture.
7.  Raise the level of experiences and consultations related to quality and accreditation.
8. Look at the integrity of procedures and practices related to the quality system at the branch.
9.  Advise and assist the University’s branch with regard to academic accreditation.
10. Develop an annual audit program for quality to be approved by the Assistant Vice Chancellor at the
   beginning of every year.
11. Examine the remarks contained in the reports of the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation
   and Quality Assurance of Education or the remarks received from the competent entities.
12. Propose professional development programs for the University’s employees with regard to quality
   assurance as well as implement such programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
F- Legal Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare, formulate and review draft resolutions, circulars and contracts in which the University’s
   branch is a party and ensure that there is nothing that may prevent their approval by the competent
    entity in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
2.  Review and formulate the contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding which will be concluded
    with other entities in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
3.  Express the legal opinion in the topics referred to this Section by the Branch’s other divisions in
    coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
4.  Investigate with the employees for any offenses attributed to them after being referred to this Section by the
    competent authority in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
5. Keep investigation records as well as the records of the Administrative Accountability Committee
   and handle such records confidentially.
6.  Represent the University’s branch before the judicial authorities in lawsuits of various degrees and
    types as well as follow up the enforcement of their rulings with an authorization from the Unit Head
    in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
7.  Follow up the cases brought against the University’s branch, prepare legal reports and notes
    regarding them as well as prepare the statements of claims and legal briefs indicating the
    University’s opinion regarding the same in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the
    University’s Presidency.
8.  Prepare periodic and annual reports on the work progress in the Section and submit necessary
   development proposals in this regard.
9.  Prepare an  annual working  plan  for work  priorities  at  the  Section,  schedule  the  plan’s
   implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
   implementation obstacles.
10. Propose annual training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on
   implementing such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
11. Follow up appeal requests issued against the University’s decisions and inform applicants of final
    decisions regarding their appeal requests.
12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 63 ---
Second: Administrative and Financial Affairs Department:  it  is competent to undertake the
following:
    1.  Prepare the draft annual budget of the branch according to the University’s plans and as per the
        circulars issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the work of services and maintenance required for operating the facilities of the
       University’s branch efficiently and take all necessary measures to guarantee the same.
    4.  Take the measures related to tenders and practices approved for the purchase process at the level of
       the University’s branch.
    5.  Exercise general supervision of the University’s stores in accordance with the rules and regulations
       regulating government stores.
    6. Manage government movable property in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the
       same.
    7.  Enforce the laws, circulars and financial decisions with regard to employee affairs.
    8.  Pay the due amounts of the government entities, companies, institutions and individuals with whom
       the University is dealing.
    9. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Develop the aspects of employee welfare in coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Collect the revenues from the fees of services provided.
    12. Propose the measures necessary to achieve internal control, oversee expenditure, maintain public
      money and improve the financial status.
    13. Take the measures related to provision of needs, including commodity and service supplies.
    14. Take the measures related to employment, promotions, employees’ bonuses, their leaves, service
       termination or retirement.
    15. Supervise the implementation of human resources systems and update them on a continuous basis.
    16. Take the executive measures related to the assessment of the job performance of the University’s
       employees.
    17. Review and approve the annual and five-year training and qualification plans proposed by the
       University’s various divisions as well as approve and follow up the implementation of such plans.
    18. Prepare the reports and studies related to training, qualification and provision of human cadres.
    19. Participate in examining the reports of the State Audit Institution and respond to such reports in
       coordination with the relevant entities.
    20. Review the policies and procedures related to the Department’s work as well as participate in
       preparing the final account of the budget.
    21. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    22. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 64 ---
The Administrative and Financial Affairs Department shall exercise its competences via the following sections:

   A. Administrative Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    2.  Distribute the circulars, administrative decisions, newspapers and magazines according to the
       applicable system.
    3.  Clear and receive the goods and packages sent to the University’s branch and its various divisions.
    4.  Provide the needs including furniture and other required supplies for offices and residences in
       coordination with the Financial Affairs Section.
    5.  Prepare the conditions related to provision of cleaning, maintenance and agriculture services to
       buildings as well as supervise the companies performing such services.
    6.  Take the measures necessary for providing the services of communications, electricity, water and
       other services needed to operate the buildings.
    7.  Organize the daily movement of vehicles, follow up their maintenance and maintain them as well
       as prepare periodic reports on them.
    8. Review the bills of electricity, water and telephone, verify their correctness and follow up their
       payment.
    9.  Take the procedures for contracting with owners of residences rented and complete the data of such
       procedures.
    10. Conduct inventory of the furniture recorded in the custody of those residing in the residences as
       well as conduct annual inventory in coordination with Financial Affairs Section.
    11. Organize the materials, items, appliances, tools, equipment, etc. as well as store them well.
    12. Supervise the supply of necessary materials to the stores on a permanent basis.
    13. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the concerned entities.
    14. Develop the aspects of employee welfare as well as search for offers and benefits for them in
       coordination with the concerned entities.
    15. Take all measures related to the visas of employees and their families as well as land travel permits,
       residence cards and health cards.
    16. Register employees’ Holdings, follow up this matter annually and prepare technical reports
       regarding the same.
    17. Prepare and develop a guide for the specifications of materials used whenever needed as well as
       maintain such guide.
    18. Take the measures related to tenders and practices approved for the purchase process.
    19. Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used movable
       property according to the applicable legal regulations.
    20. Supervise the provision of security services.
    21. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 65 ---
B. Financial Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
2.  Prepare the draft annual budget and discuss it with the competent entities at the branch and the
    University’s Presidency.
3.  Estimate the cost of projects, programs, study plans and annual commitments as well as submit
    proposals on how to fund the same.
4. Make transfers (redeployments) among budget items within the limits of law as well as carry out
   continuous budget review of the University’s branch.
5. Keep the records of expenses, purchases, service performance requests and travel tickets.
6. Review the invoices of companies, institutions and individuals with whom the University deals.
7.  Pay the furniture advance, rental value of residences for non-Omani employees and the advances
   given to new employees.
8.  Pay the value of travel tickets for the employees and faculty members or a cash compensation for
   them as well as make necessary reservations.
9.  Prepare the statements of employee salaries’ payment as well as pay the cash compensation for their
   annual regular leaves.
10. Pay the end-of-service benefit and  all financial dues for the employees whose services are
    terminated as well as deduct any amounts due for the University.
11. Verify the payment of permanent advances according to the applicable financial regulations as well
    as follow up and settle the advances of sections and centres.
12. Collect revenues gradually in accordance with the Financial Law, its Executive Regulations and
    regulating circulars as well as deliver such revenues to the Ministry of Finance.
13. Provide various needs and take the measures necessary for obtaining the best offers and rates.
14. Issue and deliver purchase orders as well as assignment orders to the companies concerned with
   supply as well as issue and review the delivery vouchers of supplied items.
15. Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used movable
    property according to the applicable regulations.
16. Pay and follow up students’ allocations as well as issue salary transfer certificates for the employees.
17. Participate in preparing the final account of the University’s budget.
18. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C. Human Resources Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
2.  Take the measures necessary for appointment and prepare employment contracts as well as open
    service files for new employees and keep appointment requirements in such files.
3. Draw up the budget of the branch’s jobs in coordination with the concerned entities and follow up
     its implementation as well as prepare reports related to the same.
4.  Participate in drawing up the budget of qualification and training at the level of the University’s branch.
5.  Identify vacancies at the branch and take necessary action to advertise them.
6.  Take the measures related to the assessment of the job performance at the level of the University’s branch.
7.  Implement the decisions of the Human Resources Committee, Employee Affairs Committee,
   Administrative Accountability Council and other competent committees.
8.  Prepare the annual program for employee leaves as well as receive, review and follow up leave requests.
9.  follow up the employees’ return from their leaves and issue return notices as well as ensure release
   procedures for non-Omani employees.
10. Open records in the names of employees and their employment numbers, keep such records and
   update the data on a continuous basis.
11. Provide data, information and statistics related to human cadres working at the University.
12. Issue “To Whom It May Concern” certificates and experience certificates to the University’s employees.
13. Follow up the attendance and departure of employees working at the University’s branch.
14. Consider the training needs of employees as well as prepare the programs and plans necessary for
   such needs in coordination with the competent institutions.
15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 66 ---
Third: Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services
The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services  is
competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Supervise and assess all matters related to electronic systems and student services and their affiliated
       divisions as well as propose their development methods.
    2.  Apply quality system in his affiliated divisions.
    3.  Supervise the distribution of students to various specializations.
    4.  Supervise the preparation of statements related to students’ results for each semester and submit
       such statements to the Branch Council.
    5.  Follow up the academic audit process for the branch’s students.
    6.  Evaluate the job performance of centres’ heads and his affiliated sections as well as approve the
       assessment of the employees of his affiliated divisions.
    7.  Supervise the development of the operational and executive plans of his affiliated divisions as well
       as submit such plans to the Assistant Vice Chancellor at the branch to approve them and follow up
        their implementation.
    8.  Supervise all events of the Student Advisory Council.
    9.  Propose the provision and updating of educational supplies needed by the branch.
    10. Supervise the implementation of the annual plan for student activities at the branch after its
       approval.
    11. Decide on the proposals related to formation and dissolution of groups, activities’ committees and
       student clubs.
    12. Prepare and issue the publications related to the branch’s achievements and events so as to enhance
       the efforts of interaction and integration with the community and economic sectors as well as
       introduce the role and mission of the branch in coordination with the competent entities at the
       University.
    13. Supervise student admissions to the branch.
    14. Supervise the follow-up of graduates and update their data.
    15. Contribute to developing the plan of training, development and qualification needs for the
      employees of his affiliated divisions.
    16. Prepare the self-assessment report for his affiliated divisions and achievements made in the Strategic
       Plan.
    17. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 67 ---
The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Electronic Systems and Student Services shall
exercise his/her competences via the following centres:
    1- Admissions and Registration Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Admissions and Registration Centre as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Admissions and
       Registration at the branch as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
        sections.
    3.  Propose admission policy in light of the University’s plans and available resources in coordination
       with the competent entities.
    4.  Provide information, data, statistics and reports about students and which are related to study
      programs and academic degrees.
    5.  Carry out analytical studies for students’ performance and their attendance.
    6.  Prepare study schedules, exam schedules and control at the level of the University’s branch.
    7.  Follow up the implementation of the academic system and propose its modification at the level of
       the University’s branch.
    8.  Participate in graduation procedures and organize graduation ceremonies at the level of the
       University’s branch.
    9.  Supervise the keeping of student records, maintain their confidentiality and privacy as well as
       organize all dealings related to their study.
    10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Admissions and Registration Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Admissions Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Admissions Section as well as
      implement such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Admissions Section
        at the branch as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Develop admission plan and conditions at the branch in light of the University’s plan and available
       resources in coordination with the concerned entities at the University.
    4. Keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in coordination with the competent
         entities.
    5.  Participate in graduation procedures and organize graduation ceremonies at the level of the
       University’s branch.
    6.  Implement the academic calendar with regard to admissions at the University’s branch.
    7.  Prepare the annual report of the Admissions Section and achievements made according to the
       operational and executive plans, identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 68 ---
B- Registration Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Registration Section as well as
      implement such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Registration Section
        at the branch as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3. Keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in coordination with the competent
         entities.
    4.  Prepare the registration plan of the branch, submit  it for approval, assess and follow up  its
       implementation in coordination with various divisions of the University.
    5.  Follow up the implementation of the academic calendar with regard to  registration  at the
       University’s branch.
    6.  Prepare the annual report of the Registration Section and achievements made according to the
       operational and executive plans, identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Timetabling and Examination Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Timetabling and Examination Section
       as well as implement such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Timetabling and
      Examination Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
       sections at the University’s Presidency and branch.
    3.  Prepare and control study schedules in coordination with the concerned sections and ensure optimal
        utilization of resources in addition to their inclusion in the electronic system.
    4.  Prepare and announce exam schedules, distribute controllers and seek students’ opinions about final
      exam schedules.
    5.  Follow up and update students’ lists related to withdrawal, deferral, deprivation from exams, appeal,
         etc.
    6.  Observe and refer student offences to the competent entities.
    7.  Follow up the inclusion of students’ grades into the electronic system and announce results after
        their approval.
    8.  Submit periodic and annual reports on the progress of exams and students’ performance in them,
       diagnose challenges and propose solutions and recommendations to improve them.
    9.  Develop the electronic systems of study and exam schedules.
    10. Collect and audit the data and statistics of the University, update them regularly and provide
       requesting entities with such data.
    11. Prepare and issue annual statistical publications and books as well as devise indicators related to
      measuring the performance of the University’s various divisions.
    12. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 69 ---
    2- Student Affairs Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Affairs Centre at the level of
       the branch as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the
      competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Affairs Centre
       as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Supervise student activities and services at the University’s branch.
    4.  Analyze the social and psychological challenges facing students as well as propose suitable
       solutions for them in collaboration with other internal and external entities.
    5.  Supervise the work of the Student Advisory Council and student societies.
    6.  Supervise student investigation and accountability works.
    7.  Supervise the process of nurturing and cultivating students’ talents as well as develop their
        capabilities to gain knowledge, experiences and skills.
    8.  Supervise the programs of developing friendly relationships among students and strengthening their
        relationships with faculty members and employees.
    9.  Encourage students to do voluntary social work and link them with the community as well as instill
       the sense of belonging and Omani identity in them.
    10. Propose giving incentives for students showing outstanding performance in student activities as well
       as academically-well performing students.
    11. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    12. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    13. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Student Affairs Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Student Activities Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Affairs Section as well as
       follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Activities
       Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Plan student events and activities, unify their implementation procedures and submit reports
       regarding them.
    4.  Coordinate the participation of the University’s student delegations in student events and forums
       abroad.
    5.  Foster partnership with the institutions related to student activities.
    6.  Support student participation at the domestic and foreign levels.
    7.  Nurture and develop the talents of students and propose incentives for them.
    8.  Supervise health awareness programs for students as well as annual excursion programs.
    9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 70 ---
B- Student Services Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Services Section as well as
       follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Services
       Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Supervise student facilities and ensure the quality of student services, especially students with
        special needs.
    4.  Analyze the social and psychological challenges of students as well as propose suitable solutions
        for such challenges in collaboration with other internal and external entities.
    5.  Supervise internal housing services for students and coordinate with providers of external housing
        services.
    6.  Prepare health awareness programs and follow up the quality of healthcare service.
    7.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Guidance and Counselling Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Guidance and Counselling Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Guidance and
       Counselling Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
        sections.
    3.  Assist students in coping with the requirements of university life through guidance programs so as
        to develop their personalities and skills.
    4. Make students acquire the skills that assist them in succeeding in their study as well as their social,
      academic and social lives as well as promote values and ethics among them.
    5.  Promote national, cultural and Islamic principles in addition to the importance of preserving such
        principles in light of openness towards the other.
    6.  Foster aspects of joint cooperation with the entities related to student guidance.
    7.  Carry out studies and researches on the obstacles to building the university personality among
       students and accompanying challenges  as well  as propose  suitable  solutions  for negative
      phenomena.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 71 ---
    3- Training and Career Guidance Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to Training and Career Guidance Centre at
       the branch as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the
      competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Follow up the training of students and the assessment of training programs in which they participate
        in coordination with the concerned sections.
    4.  Provide the information related to career opportunities for students and the skills necessary for the
       labor market as well as educate students about the same.
    5.  Identify training needs to develop student skills and implement relevant programs.
    6.  Participate in preparing and organizing career fairs in coordination with entities from inside and
       outside the University.
    7.  Follow up graduates to know the career opportunities they found and make use of the same in
       educating students and developing programs.
    8.  Hold programs and workshops to enhance job-related skills among students.
    9.  Prepare the financial plan of the Training and Career Guidance Centre and submit such plan for
       approval.
    10. Supervise the communication with the entities and institutions related to student training as well as
       follow up correspondences with the same.
    11. Prepare an annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges, propose development plans related to work progress.
    12. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    13. Contribute to developing the electronic systems related to the on-the-job training.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Training and Career Guidance Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Graduate Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University branch’s plans related to the Graduate Follow-up Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Graduate Follow-up
       Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Set up a database for graduates, follow up its updating on a continuous basis and provide such
       database to the entities requesting the same inside the University.

    4. Make graduates participate in the development of academic programs, events and various activities
        at the branch.
    5. Form an association/club for graduates, follow up the activities of such association and organize
       graduate forums.
    6.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 72 ---
B- Career Guidance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University branch’s plans related to the Career Guidance Section as well
       as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Career Guidance
       Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Develop the skills necessary for the requirements of the labor market among students through
       various activities.
    4.  Establish permanent relations with various institutions in business sectors to cooperate in the areas
       of career guidance.
    5.  Enhance students’ awareness about the culture of entrepreneurship and innovation in coordination
       with the Entrepreneurship Section and the Innovation Section.
    6.  Coordinate and cooperate with various sections and centres in the areas related to career guidance.
    7.  Organize Career Fairs in collaboration with the concerned entities.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- On-the-Job Training Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University branch’s plans related to the On-the-Job Training Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the On-the-Job Training
       Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Identify financial needs for the On-the-Job training and submit the same for approval.
    4.  Identify the needs for suitable training opportunities for students in coordination with the competent
         entities.
    5.  Prepare an awareness program for students who fulfill training conditions.
    6.  follow up the training of students and the assessment of training programs in which they participate
        in collaboration with the concerned sections.
    7.  Contribute to the development of electronic systems and the programs related to the On-the-Job
        training.
    8.  Participate in organizing training workshops that contribute to enhancing and developing training
         skills among students and make them prepared for the labor market.
    9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 73 ---
4- Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre: it is competent to undertake the
following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University branch’s plans related to the Centre as well as follow up the
       implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Provide electronic resources to the University’s facilities as needed as well as supervise their maintenance.
    4. Manage and develop software and computerized systems at the University as well as maintain them
      on a continuous basis in coordination with various divisions of the University.
    5.  Maintain technical collections at the University’s buildings.
    6.  Prepare plans and a budget to provide and develop technical and technological projects as well as
       follow up their implementation to ensure the quality of their provision.
    7.  Follow up all electronic licenses to the systems and software at the University via a unified database.
    8.  Develop and manage the University’s website according to the applicable policies as well as provide
       adequate technical support.
    9.  Develop and assess the E-learning platforms of the University.
    10. Develop and update the central databases of the University and maintain their confidentiality.
    11. Protect and monitor the University’s network using network protection technologies as well as
       ensure its continued operation.
    12. Prepare the annual report of the Centre and achievements made according to the operating and
       executive plans, identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre shall exercise its competences via the
following sections:
A- Educational Technologies Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Educational Technologies Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Educational Technologies
        Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Provide the needs of faculty members and holders of supporting technical jobs for educational
       resources, programs and systems as well as train them on the same.
    4.  Arrange and classify scientific materials as well as update, develop and maintain learning aids and
      equipment that exist at the section.
    5.  Coordinate workshops, meetings, conferences and publications.
    6.  Produce various learning aids to service the learning process in collaboration with the concerned sections.
    7. Manage and develop the E-learning and self-learning systems.
    8.  Supervise the development of the electronic content of academic courses in collaboration with
        faculty members.
    9.  Supervise the provision of technological solutions for various learning styles.
    10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 74 ---
B- Networks and Information Security Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Networks and Information Security Section as
        well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Networks and Information
        Security Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Supervise the computer network and the electronic information security system as well as operate,
      manage and maintain the same at the University’s branch.
    4.  Train students and employees on the safe use of networks, modern technologies and information
       systems at the University’s branch.
    5.  Implement the policies related to management of technological risks and information security as
       well as provide and apply security solutions.
    6.  Identify and consider the technical and technological needs for basic and security structure,
       networks, licenses and equipment at the branch as well as work on providing the same and supervise
        their control, updating and replacement according to the latest and best approved practices in
       coordination with the concerned sections at the branch and the Information Systems and Educational
       Technologies Centre at the University’s Presidency.
    7.  Oversee and manage the basic and security structure as well as networks at the branch.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Cooperate with other sections of the University within  its scope of competence to achieve
        integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Library Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Library Section at the branch as well
       as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Library Section as
       well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Identify and provide the University’s needs for digital and paper-based information resources which
       support the learning process in coordination with the Academic Sections.
    4.  Adopt the methods necessary for maintaining the library’s contents as well as provide an
       environment suitable for reading and doing research at the library.
    5.  Organize and classify the library’s records as well as determine how to use research sources.
    6.  Develop policies for borrowing, return, renewal and reservation as well as for loss or damage of books.
    7.  Take the measures necessary for preparing indexes according to the prescribed technical rules and
        regulations.
    8.  Organize how to use research resources as well as provide tools and equipment necessary for the
        library and organize their use.
    9.  Cooperate with university institutions and libraries to exchange information, publications and periodicals.
    10. Propose training programs for students and researchers to benefit from the library’s services.
    11. Do the bibliographic, research and scientific monitoring for the intellectual production in the
       Sultanate of Oman in coordination with other entities according to the rules regulating the same.
    12. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 75 ---
D- Systems Development and Technical Support Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Systems Development and Technical
       Support Section as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the
      competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Section as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Collect, analyze and document the branch’s needs for the development of central electronic systems
        in coordination with the Systems Development Section at the University’s Presidency.
    4.  Participate in developing the University’s central electronic systems in collaboration with the
       systems development sections at the University’s Presidency and the branches.
    5.  Inspect and test central electronic systems and ensure their fulfillment of users’ needs.
    6.  Contribute to identifying the needs for licenses and used programs in building and developing the
       University’s central systems.
    7.  Identify services, simplify procedures and cooperate with the sections concerned with work to
       automate the same in a manner that contributes to raising the efficiency of work.
    8.  Develop a training plan for the newly introduced solutions, programs and systems as well as train
       students and employees on them.
    9.  Provide technical support for users and train them to use programs in an optimal manner.
    10. Solve technical problems and develop mechanisms and alternatives to ensure continuity of work.
    11. Ensure the readiness, safety and security of all technical equipment and operating systems as well
       as maintain and follow up their performance.
    12. Provide technical support services to all sections and events of the University.
    13. Cooperate with other sections of the University within  its scope of competence to achieve
        integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
    14. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    15. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 76 ---
Fourth: Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs: he is competent to undertake the
following:
    1.  Replace the Assistant Vice Chancellor of the branch during his absence for any reason whatsoever
       with regard to his competence.
    2.  Supervise the application and follow-up of all matters related to academic affairs and contribute to
        their development.
    3.  Apply the quality system in his affiliated divisions.
    4.  Supervise the academic guidance of students.
    5.  Follow up the work of academic sections and follow up the implementation of academic programs
        at the branch.
    6.  Organize the assessment procedures of job performance for faculty members and heads of academic
       sections as well as approve the assessment of the employees of his affiliated divisions.
    7.  Contribute to developing the plan of training, development and qualification needs for the
      employees of his affiliated divisions.
    8.  Supervise the development of operational and executive plans for academic sections in collaboration
       with the heads of academic sections as well as submit such plans to the Assistant Vice Chancellor
        to approve them and follow up their implementation.
    9.  Prepare the self-assessment report for academic sections and the achievements made in the Strategic
       Plan with regard to academic affairs.
    10. Identify the branch’s needs of human and financial resources for academic sections in coordination
       with the concerned entities.
    11. Follow up the application of quality standards in the duties of his affiliated sections and propose
        their development.
    12. Any other duties assigned to him and that fall within his competences.

The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs shall exercise his competences via
the following divisions:
1- Academic Departments: (the establishment, merger or cancellation of academic departments shall be
approved as per the University’s System and its Executive Regulations by the University Council after
obtaining the approval of the concerned entities)
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Academic Departments as well as
       follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the  rules,  regulations and  policies  related  to  the Academic
      Departments as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Distribute teaching hours among faculty members in consultation with the Department Council.
    4.  Determine the Department’s requirements to implement the program.
    5.  Develop the assessment process followed in the Department.
    6.  Follow up the progress of the academic guidance of students.
    7.  Develop scientific research in coordination with other sections.
    8.  Participate in the assessment of job performance for faculty members and employees of his affiliated
        divisions.
    9.  Provide recommendations related to projects, contracts and research consultations as well as offer
      recommendations with regard to the services provided to the community.
    10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 77 ---
2- Continuous Education and Community Service Department: it is competent to undertake the following:

    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Continuous Education and Community
       Service Department as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by
       the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Continuous Education
      and Community Service Department as well as propose their development in coordination with the
       concerned sections.
    3.  Foster partnership between the University and the local community with regard to building and
       developing continuous education programs as well as developing the skills of the local community.
    4.  Implement and develop continuous education and community service programs based on the
       feedback received from stakeholders.
    5. Employ qualified human competencies as well as the University’s financial resources in serving the
      community.
    6.  Carry out survey and field studies that reveal the community’s needs in the areas of continuous
       education and community service.
    7.  Spread awareness and culture of the importance of continuous education and community service in
       collaboration with the concerned sections.
    8.  Encourage the University’s employees and students to do voluntary work.
    9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    10. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    11. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

3- Preparatory Studies Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University branch’s plans related to the Preparatory Studies Centre as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Preparatory Studies
       Centre as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Implement and assess preparatory programs to identify areas of improvement and wok on their
      development in collaboration with the Preparatory Studies Centre.
    4.  Develop the systems, curricula, assessment methods, educational material of preparatory programs
       as well as submit necessary reports regarding the same.
    5.  Carry out a standard benchmark to know the compliance of programs’ outputs with the international
       standards.
    6.  Apply the standards of the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation to preparatory studies’
      programs at the branch.
    7.  Propose qualification programs for the faculty members of the University’s branch so as to raise the
        level of performance.
    8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 78 ---
The Preparatory Studies Centre shall exercise its competences via the following Sections:
A- English Language Curriculum and Assessment Unit: it is competent to undertake the
    following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of English language
   according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess English language Curricula for all programs, contribute to their development, prepare
   feedback reports and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members of the English language.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials for the theoretical and practical
    teaching of English language.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for measuring
    the quality of English language curricula so as to improve performance.
7.  Apply the systems and standards of examinations and continued assessment for English
   language programs according to approved standards, follow up their implementation and
    contribute to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of the faculty
   members of English language.
9.  Assign job duties to the lecturers of English language as needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Mathematics and Computing Skills Curriculum and Assessment Unit: it is competent to
   undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of mathematics and
   computing skills according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess the curricula of mathematics and computing skills for all programs, contribute to their
   development, prepare feedback reports and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members of Mathematics and Computing Skills.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials for the theoretical and practical
    teaching of Mathematics and Computing Skills.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for measuring
    the quality of Mathematics and Computing Skills curricula so as to improve performance.
7.  Apply the systems and standards of examinations and continued assessment for Mathematics
   and  Computing  Skills  programs  according  to  approved  standards,  follow  up  their
   implementation and contribute to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of the faculty
   members of Mathematics and Computing Skills.
9.  Assign job duties to the lecturers of Mathematics and Computing Skills as needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 79 ---
C- General Requirements Unit: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of  all programs
   according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess curricula for all programs, contribute to their development, prepare feedback reports
   and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members as well as distribute duties
    to holders of supporting technical jobs.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials of the theoretical and
    practical teaching.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for
   measuring the quality of the program so as to improve performance.
7. Apply the systems and standards of examinations and continued assessment for all programs
   according to approved standards and systems, follow up their implementation and contribute
    to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of faculty
   members and holders of supporting jobs.
9.  Assign job duties to the Section’s lecturers as needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 80 ---
Fifth: Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and
Innovation
The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and
Innovation: he is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Replace the Assistant Vice Chancellor of the branch during his absence for any reason whatsoever
   with regard to his competence.
2.  Supervise the projects and programs of postgraduate studies, scientific research, innovation and
    consultations at the branch, follow up the implementation of such projects and programs in
    coordination with the concerned entities and contribute to their development.
3.  Follow up the enforcement of academic rules and regulations related to postgraduate studies,
    scientific research and innovation in coordination with the concerned entities.
4.  Follow up and assess the activities of postgraduate studies, scientific research, innovation and
    consultations at the branch.
5.  Create communication channels with the branches, colleges, other research centres and various
    sectors  with  regard  to  scientific  research,  innovation and  consultations  according  to  the
   Communication Policy and procedures at the University.
6.  Seek to obtain financial resources to fund research, innovative and consulting projects as well as
    coordinate with the entities concerned with managing and employing such resources to serve
    scientific research, innovation and consultations according to the rules regulating the same.
7.  Supervise the organization and holding of conferences, seminars and research events according to
    the rules regulating the same in coordination with the concerned entities.
8.  Supervise the development of operational and executive plans for his affiliated divisions, submit
   such plans to the Assistant Vice Chancellor at the branch for approval and follow up their
   implementation.
9.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of his affiliated divisions and propose
    their development.
10. Prepare necessary reports about the work of his affiliated divisions and achievements made in the
    Strategic Plan with regard to postgraduate studies, scientific research, innovation and consultations.
11. Any other duties assigned to him and that fall within his competences.

--- Page 81 ---
The Deputy of the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Postgraduate Studies, Scientific Research and
Innovation shall exercise his competences via the following divisions:
A- Research and Consultation Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate in preparing the University’s Strategic Plan with regard to researches and consultations.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
   on achievements made.
3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Department, propose their
   development and submit reports on the same.
4.  Prepare the programs of researches and consultations, follow up their implementation, take necessary
    measures to develop them and create a stimulating environment for researchers and innovators.
5.  Activate channels of communication with the relevant research and consulting  institutions
   according to the Communication Policy approved at the University.
6.  Raise awareness about the research and consulting activities at the University’s branch and local community.
7.  Organize and hold conferences and seminars as well as other scientific events and activities.
8.  Provide references and research resources and facilitate access to them.
9.  Contribute to the sector of researches that are based on innovative solutions and foster this culture.
10. Participate in monitoring and coping with changes and shifts in the local, regional and international
    sectors of research and innovation.
11. Work with industrial institutions so as to promote the role of research and development sectors in
    supporting the fields of researches related to future technologies.
12. Contribute to directing the researches towards looking into the future, its requirements and horizons
    as well as monitor changes and shifts in this aspect.
13. Create partnerships with the private sector and stimulate expenditure on research according to
    national priorities and the strategies of scientific research and innovation.
14. Follow up the application of scientific research ethics.
15. Develop solutions for the challenges facing the research sector.
16. Contribute to improving the services provided.
17. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
18. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Partnership and Entrepreneurship Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute  to  preparing  the  University’s  Strategic  Plan  with  regard  to  partnership  and
    entrepreneurship.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Section and propose their
   development.
4.  Contribute to preparing entrepreneurship programs at the University’s branch in coordination with
    the concerned sections.
5.  Take the measures necessary for developing entrepreneurship at the branch and local community
   according to the Communication Policy at the University.
6.  Introduce the annual entrepreneurship plan, its conditions and available funding sources.
7.  Introduce students to the entrepreneurship support system and provide them with basic skills
   necessary for enabling them to manage their start-ups successfully.
8.  Contribute to promoting the role of SMEs in finding jobs and employment opportunities which
   accommodate the University’s graduates.
9.  Foster  the  entrepreneurship  culture and  establish  the  entrepreneurial  thinking among  the
    University’s students.
10. Build relations and partnerships between the branch and the entrepreneurship-supporting institutions.
11. Highlight start-up student companies and support them to get involved in the business sector.
12. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Contribute to improving the services provided.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 82 ---
C- Innovation and Technology Transfer Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan with regard to innovation and technology
    transfer.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
   on achievements made.
3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Department and propose their
   development.
4.  Follow up the projects related to innovation, intellectual property and technology transfer.
5.  Apply the policy of intellectual property and technology transfer as well as scientific research ethics.
6.  Spread the culture of scientific research, innovation, intellectual property and technology transfer
    at the branch and local community.
7.  Take the measures necessary for innovation development and technology transfer at the branch and
    local community according to the Communication Policy approved at the University.
8.  Ensure that the branch’s employees are aware of the annual plan for innovation and technology
    transfer, available funding resources and the conditions of such plan.
9.  Apply the performance indicators related to innovation and technology transfer which are based on
    the inputs and outputs of innovation.
10. Market developed technologies and manage intellectual property rights for the branch and partners
   from various business sectors.
11. Contribute to supporting multi-disciplinary innovative researches as well as foster the culture of
    innovation solutions for the needs of production sectors.
12. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Contribute to improving the services provided.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Scientific Research Centres: (the establishment, merger or cancellation of Scientific Research
   Centres shall be approved as per the University’s System and its Executive Regulations by the
    University Council after obtaining the approval of the concerned entities), they are competent to
   undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
   propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Carry out research studies related to the work of the Centre.
4.  Assess research works that fall within the Centre’s scope of work.
5.  Build research relations with the research centres as well as academic and research institutions
    related to the work of the Centre.
6.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
7.  Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 83 ---
  Dean of Specialized College/ Academy

   Dean of Specialized College / Academy Dean: is competent to undertake the following:

1.  Contribute to preparing the Strategic Plan of the College/Academy as well as supervise the preparation
   and implementation of the operational plans of his/her affiliated divisions.
2.  Propose and issue administrative decisions according to the powers and mandates stipulated in the rules
   and regulations.
3.  Supervise all his affiliated divisions and follow up the application of the quality system in such divisions.
4.  Supervise the draft estimated budget of the College/Academy as well as submit the same for approval.
5.  Maintain the movable and immovable property of the College/Academy and take necessary measures
    to do so.
6.  Foster the relation with community institutions and beneficiaries.
7.  Enhance cooperation with universities, educational and professional institutions and economic sectors
    both domestically and abroad after obtaining necessary approvals.
8.  Submit proposals that will help in developing work progress at the College/Academy.
9.  Submit an annual report to the Vice Chancellor on the work progress in his affiliated divisions.
10. Form various committees related to the work of the College/Academy.
11. Enforce regulations and the decisions of the Academic Council and other councils.
12. Supervise the learning process, examinations and overall performance as well as ensure good work
    progress at the College/Academy.
13. Examine the reports of external examiners and assessment teams as well as submit recommendations
    regarding the same to the Academic Council after being discussed at the College/Academy Council.
14. Consider  the College/Academy  needs  of human and  financial  resources  as  well  as  submit
   recommendations regarding the same to the competent entities at the University.
15. Approve sending the College/Academy employees on official missions inside the Sultanate of Oman.
16. Approve the job performance evaluation reports for the College/Academy employees.
17. Accept all types of leave requests according to prescribed rules except for private and study leaves for
    the College/Academy employees as well as assign other employees to handle the work of those taking
    leaves during their absence.
18. Accept paying the cash allowance for the balance of regular leaves due for the employees whose services
    are terminated at the College/Academy.
19. Impose the penalty of warning or salary deduction for a period not exceeding (3) days per one time and
    not exceeding (15) days per year for the College/Academy employees.
20. Submit the minutes of the College/Academy sessions to the Vice Chancellor within one week from their
    approval date.
21. Propose the concessions and subsidies that will be given to students and submit the same to the Vice
    Chancellor.
22. Supervise the implementation of the academic program as well as propose methods of its development.
23. Participate in analyzing the training needs of faculty members and propose required training programs.
24. Supervise the mechanism of coordination between the College/Academy and universities with whom
    there is an academic cooperation in academic programs.
25. Lead, prepare and develop tools and standards to measure the assessment process followed in the
   academic program.
26. Supervise the mechanism of coordination with local and international academic institutions so as to
   exchange information and develop the program.
27. Coordinate with the institutions concerned with accreditation locally and internationally so as to ensure
    that the program is aligned to accreditation requirements.

--- Page 84 ---
The Dean of Specialized College/Academy shall exercise his competences via the following divisions:
First: Following Sections:
   A- Communication and Media Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
        1.  Prepare and implement the annual media plan of the Specialized College/Academy activities as
          well as share such plans with the relevant entities.
        2. Manage the media content on the University’s website and social media.
        3.  Prepare the media readable, visual and audio content released by the College/Academy and
           coordinate regarding such content with the concerned entities.
        4.  Organize media events held by the College/Academy in coordination with the competent
            divisions.
        5.  Coordinate with the  entities concerned with the media coverage of events held by the
         College/Academy as well as conduct press and media interviews and activities.
        6.  Prepare and execute media and marketing campaigns according to the annual plans and
          programs of the College/Academy in coordination with the concerned entities.
        7.  Follow up all materials published about the College/Academy in all mass media as well as
           prepare appropriate responses, if required, in coordination with the competent divisions of the
           University.
        8.  Coordinate with the concerned organizations on common issues and topics so as to ensure
           unifying the government media messages in line with the official measures applicable in this
           regard.
        9.  Activate and manage internal communication activities so as to promote the institutional loyalty
           of the College/Academy employees.
       10. Communicate with media organizations about the topics they discuss so as to clarify facts and
          provide them with information to serve the University’s orientations.
       11. Formulate and edit the text content including press releases, publications and other media
           materials as well as their requirements which comprise proofreading and media translation.
       12. Prepare, design and implement the media content according to the media plan such as the
           designs, images, videos, graphics, etc.
       13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

   B- Public Relations Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
        1.  Prepare an annual working plan for work  priorities  at the Section, schedule the plan’s
          implementation throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as
          implementation obstacles.
        2.  Supervise the reception and bidding farewell to the official guests of the College/Academy Dean
            in coordination with competent entities.
        3.  Prepare and organize the receptions pertaining to the College/Academy Dean as well as take
          necessary action regarding them.
        4.  Supervise the arrangements necessary for receiving and hosting the College/Academy visitors
         and prepare the programs of their visits in coordination with competent entities.
        5.  Contact relevant entities and coordinate with them regarding public relations.
        6.  Propose  training and  qualification programs  for the Section’s employees and work on
          implementing such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
        7.  Participate in the events related to public relations inside and outside the Sultanate of Oman.
        8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
        9.  Submit periodic reports on the achievements of the Public Relations Section.
       10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 85 ---
C- Coordination and Follow-up Section: It is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation, submit reports on
       achievements made, challenges faced and development proposals.
    2.  Organize all topics and reports sent to the College/Academy Dean, prepare the same to be
       submitted to him and implement his directives on such topics and reports.
    3.  Register outgoing letters and ensure their delivery to the competent entities via the approved
       channels.
    4.  Print and photocopy the topics related to the Section.
    5.  Organize the appointments, meetings and communications of the College/Academy Dean.
    6. Keep the transactions, notes and letters pertaining to the College/Academy Dean in accordance
       with the applicable procedures.
    7.  Follow up the topics sent to the Office of the College/Academy Dean and refer the same to the
       concerned entities.
    8.  Follow up the instructions of the College/Academy Dean with regard to the work of the
      College/Academy.
    9.  Provide data and information that assist the College/Academy Dean in taking decisions on the
        topics submitted to him.
    10. Prepare a program to follow up the topics referred by the College/Academy Dean to his affiliated
        divisions.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

D- Mail and Documents Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit
    reports on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
2.  Prepare the document classification system, tables of their retention periods, procedures necessary
    for documentation management in collaboration with the National Records and Archives Authority.
3.  Provide technical support to employees with regard to the application of the rules and regulations
    related to documents.
4.  Transfer archives to the National Records and Archives Authority as well as destroy the documents
   whose legal retention period had expired according to the prescribed rules.
5.  Register the outgoing and incoming mail according to the numerical and chronological sequence.
6.  Participate in the events related to management of mail and documentation inside and outside the
    Sultanate of Oman.
7.  Deliver the original incoming mail to the concerned divisions at the College/Academy.
8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
9.  Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 86 ---
E- Quality Assurance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up the plan’s implementation and submit reports
   on achievements made as well as challenges faced and development proposals.
2.  Disseminate the concepts of distinction and creativity, share the best administrative and professional
    practices as well as ensure their application at the College/Academy.
3.  Develop and follow up the implementation of the approved plan for quality and obtain approval from
    the concerned entities.
4.  Follow up the application of quality system and develop work mechanisms in various divisions of the
   College/Academy.
5.  Offer advice and  assistance  to various  divisions of  the College/Academy with regard  to  the
   implementation of quality systems and applications.
6.  Supervise the improvement  in the  quality of academic, administrative, financial and technical
   performance as well as foster quality culture.
7.  Raise the level of experiences and consultations related to quality and accreditation at the level of the
   College/Academy.
8.  Look at the integrity of procedures and practices related to the quality system at the College/Academy.
9.  Advise and assist the employees of the College/Academy with regard to academic accreditation.
10. Develop an annual audit program for quality to be approved by the College/Academy Dean at the
    beginning of every year.
11. Examine the remarks referred by the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation and Quality
   Assurance of Education to the College/Academy or the remarks received from the concerned entities.
12. Propose professional development programs for the employees with regard to quality assurance as well
    as implement such programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
F- Legal Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare, formulate and review draft resolutions, circulars and contracts in which the University is a party and
    ensure that there is nothing that may prevent their approval by the competent entity in coordination with the
    Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
2.  Review and formulate the contracts, agreements and memoranda of understanding which will be concluded
    with other entities in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
3.  Express the legal opinion in the topics referred to this Section by the College/Academy divisions in
    coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
4.  Investigate with the employees for any offenses attributed to them after being referred to this Section by the
    competent authority in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
5.  Keep investigation records as well as the records of the Administrative Accountability Committee and handle
    such records confidentially.
6.  Represent the College/Academy before the judicial authorities in lawsuits of various degrees and types as
    well as follow up the enforcement of their rulings with an authorization from the Unit Head in coordination
    with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
7.  Follow up the cases brought against the College/Academy, prepare legal reports and notes regarding them as
    well as prepare the statements of claims and legal briefs indicating the University’s opinion regarding the
   same in coordination with the Legal Affairs Department at the University’s Presidency.
8.  Prepare periodic and annual reports on the work progress in the Section and submit necessary development
    proposals in this regard.
9.  Prepare an annual working plan for work priorities at the Section, schedule the plan’s implementation
    throughout the year and submit reports on achievements made as well as implementation obstacles.
10. Propose annual training and qualification programs for the Section’s employees and work on implementing
    such programs in coordination with the competent divisions of the University.
11. Follow up appeal requests issued against the University’s decisions and inform applicants of final decisions
    regarding their appeal requests.
12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 87 ---
Second: Administrative and Financial Affairs Department:  it  is competent to undertake the
following:
    1.  Prepare the draft annual budget of the College/Academy according to the University’s plans and as
       per the circulars issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
      on achievements made.
    3.  Follow up the work of services and maintenance required for operating the facilities of the
      College/Academy efficiently and take all necessary measures to guarantee the same.
    4.  Take the measures related to tenders and practices approved for the purchase process at the level of
       the College/Academy.
    5.  Exercise general supervision of the University’s stores in accordance with the rules and regulations
       governing government stores.
    6. Manage government movables according to the rules and regulations governing the same.
    7.  Enforce the laws, circulars and financial decisions with regard to personnel affairs.
    8.  Pay the due amounts of the government entities, companies, institutions and individuals with whom
       the University is dealing.
    9. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the competent entities.
    10. Develop the aspects of employee welfare in coordination with the concerned entities.
    11. Collect the revenues from the fees of services provided.
    12. Propose the measures necessary to achieve internal control, oversee expenditure, maintain public
      money and improve the financial status.
    13. Take the measures related to provision of needs, including commodity and service supplies.
    14. Take the measures related to employment, promotions, employees’ bonuses, their leaves, service
       termination or retirement.
    15. Supervise the implementation of human resources systems and update them on a continuous basis.
    16. Take the executive measures related to the assessment of the job performance of the University’s
       employees.
    17. Review and approve the annual and five-year training and qualification plans proposed by the
       various divisions of the College/Academy as well as follow up the implementation of such plans.
    18. Prepare the reports and studies related to training, qualification and provision of human cadres at
       the level of the College/Academy.
    19. Participate in examining the reports of the State Audit Institution and respond to such reports in
       coordination with the relevant entities.
    20. Review the policies and procedures related to the Department’s work as well as participate in
       preparing the final account of the budget.
    21. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    22. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 88 ---
The Administrative and Financial Affairs Department shall exercise his competences via the
following sections:
   A. Administrative Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Distribute the circulars, administrative decisions, newspapers and magazines according to the
       applicable system.
    2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
       achievements made.
    3.  Clear and receive the goods and packages sent to the College/Academy.
    4.  Provide the needs including furniture and other required supplies for offices and residences in
       coordination with the Financial Affairs Section.
    5.  Prepare the conditions related to provision of cleaning, maintenance and agriculture services to the
       buildings of the College/Academy as well as supervise the companies performing such services.
    6.  Take the measures necessary for providing the services of communications, electricity, water and
       other services needed to operate the buildings.
    7.  Organize the daily movement of vehicles, follow up their maintenance and maintain them as well
       as prepare periodic reports on them.
    8. Review the bills of electricity, water and telephone, verify their correctness and follow up their
       payment.
    9.  Take the procedures for contracting with owners of residences rented and complete the data of such
       procedures.
    10. Conduct inventory of the furniture recorded in the custody of those residing in the residences as
       well as conduct annual inventory in coordination with Financial Affairs Section.
    11. Organize the materials, items, appliances, tools, equipment, etc. as well as store them well.
    12. Follow up the levels of stores so as to provide materials, items, appliances and tools through the
      competent entities.
    13. Register employees’ Holdings, follow up this matter annually and prepare technical reports
       regarding the same.
    14. Prepare and develop a guide for the specifications of materials used whenever needed as well as
       maintain such guide.
    15. Take the measures related to tenders and practices approved for the purchase process.
    16. Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used movable
       property according to the applicable legal regulations.
    17. Make reservations for the employees sent on official or training missions inside the Sultanate of
     Oman in coordination with the concerned entities.
    18. Develop the aspects of employee welfare as well as search for benefits for them in coordination
       with the concerned entities.
    19. Take all measures related to the visas of employees and their families as well as land travel permits,
       residence cards and health cards.
    20. Supervise the provision of security services.
    21. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 89 ---
B. Financial Affairs Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Prepare the draft annual budget and discuss it with the competent entities at the College/Academy
   and the University’s Presidency.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
3.  Estimate the cost of projects, programs, study plans and annual commitments as well as submit
    proposals on how to fund the same.
4. Make transfers (redeployments) among budget items within the limits of law as well as carry out
   continuous budget review of the College/Academy.
5. Keep the records of expenses, purchases, service performance requests and travel tickets.
6. Review and pay all invoices of companies, institutions and individuals with whom the University
    deals.
7.  Pay the furniture advance, rental value of residences for non-Omani employees and the advances
   given to new employees.
8.  Pay the value of travel tickets for the employees and faculty members or a cash compensation for
   them as well as make necessary reservations.
9.  Prepare the statements of employee salaries’ payment as well as pay the cash compensation for their
   annual regular leaves.
10. Pay the end-of-service benefit and  all financial dues for the employees whose services are
    terminated as well as deduct any amounts due for the University.
11. Verify the payment of permanent advances according to the applicable financial regulations as well
    as follow up and settle the advances of sections and centres.
12. Collect revenues gradually in accordance with the Financial Law, its Executive Regulations and
    regulating circulars as well as deliver such revenues to the Ministry of Finance.
13. Provide various needs and take the measures necessary for obtaining the best offers and rates.
14. Issue and deliver purchase orders as well as assignment orders to the companies concerned with
   supply as well as issue and review the delivery vouchers of supplied items.
15. Participate in the committees concerned with the annual inventory and sale of used movable
    property according to the applicable regulations.
16. Pay and follow up students’ allocations as well as issue salary transfer certificates for the employees.
17. Participate in preparing the final account of the University’s budget.
18. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 90 ---
C. Human Resources Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Take the measures necessary for appointment and prepare employment contracts as well as open
    service files for new employees and keep appointment requirements in such files.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
3.  Prepare the budget of the College/Academy jobs in coordination with the concerned entities and
   follow up its implementation as well as prepare reports related to the same.
4.  Participate  in drawing up  the  budget  of  qualification and  training  at  the  level  of  the
   College/Academy.
5.  Identify vacancies at the level of the College/Academy and take necessary action to advertise them.
6.  Take the measures  related  to  the assessment of the job performance  at  the  level of the
   College/Academy.
7.  Implement the decisions of the Human Resources Committee, Employee Affairs Committee,
   Administrative Accountability Council and other competent committees.
8.  Prepare the annual program for employee leaves as well as receive, review and follow up leave
    requests.
9.  follow up the employees’ return from their leaves and issue return notices as well as ensure release
   procedures for non-Omani employees.
10. Open records in the names of employees and their employment numbers, keep such records and
   update the data on a continuous basis.
11. Provide data, information and statistics related to human cadres working at the University.
12. Issue “To Whom  It May Concern” certificates and experience certificates to the University’s
   employees.
13. Consider the training needs of employees as well as prepare the programs and plans necessary for
   such needs in coordination with the competent institutions.
14. Follow up the attendance and departure of the employees of the College/Academy.
15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 91 ---
Third: Assistant Dean for Electronic Systems and Student Services

The Assistant Dean for Electronic Systems and Student Services is competent to undertake the following:

    1.  Replace the College/Academy Dean during his absence for any reason whatsoever with regard to
        his/her competence.
    2.  Supervise and assess all matters related to electronic systems and student services and their affiliated
       divisions as well as propose their development methods.
    3.  Supervise the distribution of students to various specializations.
    4.  Supervise the preparation of statements related to students’ results for each semester and submit
       such statements to the College/Academy Council.
    5.  Follow up the academic audit process for the College/Academy students.
    6.  Evaluate the job performance of centres’ heads and his affiliated sections as well as approve the
       assessment of the employees of his affiliated divisions.
    7.  Supervise the development of the operational and executive plans of his affiliated divisions as well
       as  submit  such  plans  to  the College/Academy Dean  for  approval  and  follow up  their
       implementation.
    8.  Supervise all events of the Student Advisory Council.
    9.  Propose the provision and updating of educational supplies needed by the College/Academy.
    10. Supervise the implementation of the annual plan for student activities at the College/Academy after
          its approval.
    11. Decide on the proposals related to formation and dissolution of groups, activities’ committees and
       student clubs.
    12. Prepare and issue the publications related to the College/Academy achievements and events so as
        to enhance the efforts of interaction and integration with the community and economic sectors as
       well as introduce the role and mission of the College/Academy in coordination with the competent
         entities.
    13. Supervise student admissions to the College/Academy.
    14. Supervise the follow-up of graduates and update their data.
    15. Contribute to developing the plan of training, development and qualification needs for the
      employees of his affiliated divisions.
    16. Prepare the periodic self-assessment report for his affiliated divisions and achievements made in the
        Strategic Plan.
    17. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 92 ---
The Assistant Dean for Electronic Systems and Student Services shall exercise his competences
via the following centres:
1- Admissions and Registration Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Admissions and Registration Centre as
   well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Admissions and
    Registration Centre as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
    sections.
3.  Participate in developing the admission policy in light of the University’s plans and available
    resources at the College/Academy in coordination with the competent entities.
4.  Provide information, data, statistics and reports about students and which are related to study
   programs and academic degrees.
5.  Contribute to conducting analytical studies of students’ performance and their college attendance.
6.  Prepare study schedules, exam schedules and control at the College/Academy.
7.  Follow up the implementation of the academic system at the College/Academy and propose its
    modification.
8.  Participate in graduation procedures and organize graduation ceremonies at the level of the
   College/Academy.
9.  Supervise the keeping of student records, maintain their confidentiality and privacy as well as
   organize all dealings related to their study.
10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
11. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
12. Contribute to improving the services provided.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Admissions and Registration Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Admissions Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate  in  preparing  the  University’s  plans  related  to  the Admissions  Section  at  the
   College/Academy as well as implement such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Admissions Section
    at the College/Academy as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
    sections.
3.  Develop admission plan and conditions at the College/Academy in light of the University’s plan
   and available resources in coordination with the concerned entities at the University.
4.  Develop a mechanism to keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in coordination
   with the competent entities.
5.  Participate in graduation procedures and organize graduation ceremonies at the level of the
   College/Academy.
6.  Follow up the implementation of the academic calendar with regard to admission procedures at the
   College/Academy.
7.  Prepare the annual report of the Admissions Section and achievements made according to the
    operational and executive plans, identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 93 ---
B- Registration Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate  in  preparing  the  University’s  plans  related  to  the  Registration  Section  at  the
   College/Academy as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by
    the competent entities.
2.  Enforce  the  rules,  regulations  and  policies  related  to  the  Registration  Section  at  the
   College/Academy as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Develop a mechanism to keep students’ records so as to ensure their confidentiality in coordination
   with the competent entities.
4.  Prepare the registration plan of the College/Academy, submit it for approval, assess and follow up
     its implementation in coordination with various divisions of the University.
5.  Follow up the implementation of the academic calendar with regard to  registration  at the
   College/Academy.
6.  Prepare the annual report of the Registration Section and achievements made according to the
    operational and executive plans, identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
C- Timetabling and Examination Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Timetabling and Examination Section
    as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities
    at the College/Academy.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Timetabling and
   Examination Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
    sections.
3.  Prepare and control study schedules in coordination with the concerned sections and ensure optimal
    utilization of resources in addition to their inclusion in the electronic system.
4.  Prepare and announce exam schedules at the College/Academy, distribute controllers and seek
    students’ opinions about final exam schedules.
5.  Follow up and update the College/Academy students’  lists related to withdrawal,  deferral,
    deprivation from exams, appeal, etc.
6.  Observe and refer student offences to the competent entities at the College/Academy.
7.  Follow up the inclusion of students’ grades into the electronic system and announce results after
    their approval.
8.  Submit periodic and annual reports on the progress of exams and students’ performance in them,
   diagnose challenges and propose solutions and recommendations to improve them.
9.  Develop the electronic systems of study and exam schedules.
10. Collect and audit the data and statistics of the College/Academy, update them regularly and provide
    requesting entities with such data.
11. Prepare and issue annual statistical publications and books as well as devise indicators related to
   measuring the performance of various divisions of the College/Academy.
12. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 94 ---
2- Student Affairs Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Affairs Centre as well as follow up the
    implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities at the College/Academy.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Affairs Centre
    as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Supervise student activities and services at the level of the College/Academy.
4.  Analyze the social and psychological challenges of students as well as propose suitable solutions
    for such challenges in collaboration with other domestic and foreign entities.
5.  Supervise the work of the Student Advisory Council and student societies at the level of the
   College/Academy.
6.  Supervise student investigation and accountability works at the level of the College/Academy.
7.  Supervise the process of nurturing and cultivating students’ talents as well as develop their
    capabilities to gain knowledge, experiences and skills.
8.  Supervise  the  programs  of  developing  friendly  relationships  among  students  of  the
   College/Academy and strengthening their relationships with faculty members and employees.
9.  Encourage students to do voluntary social work and link them with the community as well as instill
    the sense of belonging and Omani identity in them.
10. Propose giving incentives for students showing outstanding performance in student activities as well
    as academically-well-performing students.
11. Prepare the annual report of achievements according to the operational and executive plans, identify
    challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
12. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Contribute to improving the services provided.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Student Affairs Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Student Activities Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Activities Section as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities at the
   College/Academy.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Activities
    Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Plan student events and activities, unify their implementation procedures and submit reports
    regarding them.
4.  Coordinate the participation of the University’s student delegations in student events and forums abroad.
5.  Foster  partnership  with  the  institutions  related  to  student  activities  at  the  level  of  the
   College/Academy.
6.  Participate in supporting student participation at the domestic and foreign levels.
7.  Nurture and develop the talents of the College/Academy students and propose incentives for them.
8.  Supervise health awareness programs for students as well as annual excursion programs for the
   College/Academy students.
9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements according to the operational and executive plans, identify
    challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 95 ---
B- Student Services Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Student Services Section as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Student Services
    Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Supervise student facilities and ensure the quality of student services, especially students with
    special needs.
4.  Analyze the social and psychological challenges of students as well as propose suitable solutions
    for such challenges in collaboration with other domestic and foreign entities.
5.  Supervise  internal housing services for the College/Academy students and coordinate with
    providers of external housing services.
6.  Prepare health awareness programs and follow up the quality of healthcare service at the level of
    the College/Academy.
7.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
8.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Guidance and Counselling Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Guidance and Counselling Section as
   well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Guidance and
   Counselling Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned
    sections.
3.  Assist students in coping with the requirements of university life through guidance programs so as
    to develop their personalities and skills.
4. Make students acquire the skills that assist them in succeeding in their study as well as their social,
   academic and social lives as well as promote values and ethics among them.
5.  Promote national, cultural and Islamic principles in addition to the importance of preserving such
    principles in light of openness towards the other.
6.  Foster aspects of joint cooperation with the entities related to student guidance.
7.  Carry out studies and researches on the obstacles to building the university personality among
    students and accompanying challenges  as well  as propose  suitable  solutions  for negative
   phenomena.
8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements according to the operational and executive plans, identify
    challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 96 ---
3- Training and Career Guidance Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to Training and Career Guidance Centre as
   well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
   propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Follow up the training of students and the assessment of training programs in which they participate
    in coordination with the concerned sections.
4.  Provide the information related to career opportunities for students and the skills necessary for the
    labor market as well as educate students about the same.
5.  Identify training needs to develop the skills of the College/Academy students and implement
    relevant programs.
6.  Participate in preparing and organizing career fairs in coordination with entities from inside and
    outside the University.
7.  Follow up graduates to know the career opportunities they found and make use of the same in
   educating students and developing programs.
8.  Hold programs and workshops to enhance job-related skills among the College/Academy students.
9.  Prepare the financial plan of the Training and Career Guidance Centre and submit such plan for
    approval.
10. Supervise the communication with the entities and institutions related to student training as well as
   follow up correspondences with the same.
11. Contribute to developing the electronic systems related to the on-the-job training.
12. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges, propose development plans related to work progress.
13. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

The Training and Career Guidance Centre shall exercise its competences via the following sections:
A- Graduate Follow-up Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Graduate Follow-up Section as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Graduate Follow-up
    Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Set up a database for graduates, follow up its updating on a continuous basis and provide such
   database to the entities requesting the same inside the University.
4.  Get graduates involved in the development of academic programs, events and various activities at
    the College/Academy.
5. Form an association/club for graduates at the level of the College/Academy, follow up the activities
    of such association and organize graduate forums.
6.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
8. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 97 ---
B- Career Guidance Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Career Guidance Section as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Career Guidance
    Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Develop the skills necessary for the requirements of the labor market among the College/Academy
    students through various activities.
4.  Establish permanent relations with various institutions in business sectors to cooperate in the areas
    of career guidance.
5.  Coordinate with the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Unit to enhance the College/Academy
    students’ awareness about the culture of entrepreneurship and innovation.
6.  Coordinate and cooperate with various sections and centres in the areas related to career guidance.
7.  Organize career fairs at the level of the College/Academy in collaboration with the concerned
    entities.
8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
10. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- On-the-Job Training Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the On-the-Job Training Section as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the On-the-Job Training
    Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Contribute to identifying the financial needs of the On-the-Job training at the level of the
   College/Academy and submit the same for approval.
4.  Identify the needs  for  suitable  training opportunities  for the College/Academy students  in
    coordination with the competent entities.
5.  Prepare an awareness program for the College/Academy students who fulfill training conditions.
6.  follow up the training of the College/Academy students and the assessment of training programs in
   which they participate in collaboration with the concerned sections.
7.  Contribute to the development of electronic systems and the programs related to the On-the-Job
    training.
8.  Participate in organizing training workshops that contribute to enhancing and developing training
    skills among students and make them prepared for the labor market.
9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 98 ---
4- Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Participate in preparing the University’s plans related to the Centre as well as follow up the
       implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
       propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Provide electronic resources to the College/Academy  facilities as needed as well as supervise their
       maintenance.
    4. Manage and develop software and computerized systems at the College/Academy as well as
       maintain them on a continuous basis in coordination with various divisions of the University.
    5.  Maintain technical collections at the buildings of the College/Academy.
    6.  Prepare plans and a budget to provide and develop technical and technological projects at the
      College/Academy as well as follow up their implementation to ensure the quality of their provision.
    7.  Follow up all electronic licenses of the systems and software at the College/Academy via a unified database.
    8.  Develop and manage the University’s website according to the applicable policies as well as provide
       adequate technical support.
    9.  Develop and assess E-learning platforms of the University.
    10. Develop and update the central databases of the University and maintain their confidentiality.
    11. Protect and monitor the University’s network using network protection technologies as well as
       ensure its continued operation.
    12. Prepare the annual report of the Centre and achievements made according to the operational and
       executive plans, identify challenges and propose development working plans.
    13. Propose professional development programs for the Centre’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    14. Contribute to improving the services provided.
    15. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.
   The Information Systems and Educational Technologies Centre shall exercise its competences via
   the following sections:
   A- Educational Technologies Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
    1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Educational Technologies Section as
       well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
    2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Educational Technologies
        Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
    3.  Provide the needs of faculty members and holders of supporting technical jobs for educational
       resources, programs and systems as well as train them on the same.
    4.  Arrange and classify scientific materials as well as update, develop and maintain learning aids and
      equipment that exist at the section.
    5.  Coordinate workshops, meetings, conferences and publications at the level of the College/Academy.
    6.  Produce various learning aids to service the learning process in collaboration with the concerned sections.
    7. Manage and develop the E-learning and self-learning systems.
    8.  Supervise the development of the electronic content of academic courses in collaboration with
        faculty members at the College/Academy.
    9.  Supervise the provision of technological solutions for various learning styles.
    10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
        identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
    11. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
      programs in coordination with the competent entities.
    12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 99 ---
B- Networks and Information Security Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Networks and Information Security Section as
    well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Networks and
   Information Security Section as well as propose their development in coordination with the
   concerned sections.
3.  Supervise the computer network and the electronic information security system as well as operate,
   manage and maintain the same at the College/Academy.
4.  Train students and employees on the safe use of networks, modern technologies and information
   systems at the College/Academy.
5.  Implement the policies related to management of technological risks and information security as
   well as provide and apply security solutions.
6.  Identify and consider the technical and technological needs for basic and security structure,
   networks, licenses and equipment at the College/Academy as well as work on providing the same
   and supervise their control, updating and replacement in coordination with the concerned entities.
7.  Oversee and manage the basic and security structure as well as networks at the College/Academy.
8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
10. Cooperate with other sections of the University within  its scope of competence to achieve
    integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Library Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Library Section as well as follow up
    the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Library Section as
   well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Identify and provide the College/Academy needs for digital and paper-based information resources
   which support the learning process in coordination with the Academic Sections.
4.  Adopt the methods necessary for maintaining the library’s contents as well as provide an
   environment suitable for reading and doing research at the library.
5.  Organize and classify the library’s records as well as determine how to use research sources.
6.  Develop policies for borrowing, return, renewal and reservation as well as for loss or damage of books.
7.  Take the measures necessary for preparing indexes according to the prescribed technical rules and
    regulations.
8.  Organize how to use research resources as well as provide tools and equipment necessary for the
   College/Academy library and organize their use.
9.  Cooperate with university institutions and libraries to exchange information, publications and periodicals.
10. Propose training programs for the College/Academy students and researchers to benefit from the
    library’s services.
11. Do the bibliographic, research and scientific monitoring for the intellectual production in the
    Sultanate of Oman in coordination with other entities according to the rules regulating the same.
12. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
13. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
14. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 100 ---
D- Systems Development and Technical Support Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Systems Development and Technical
   Support Section as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the
   competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Section as well as
   propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Collect, analyze and document the College/Academy needs for the development of central
    electronic systems in coordination with the Systems Development Section at the University’s
    Presidency.
4.  Contribute to developing central electronic systems in coordination and collaboration with the
   systems development sections at the University’s Presidency, branches and colleges.
5.  Inspect and test central electronic systems and ensure their fulfillment for users’ needs.
6.  Contribute to identifying the needs for licenses and used programs in building and developing the
    University’s central systems.
7.  Identify services, simplify procedures and cooperate with the concerned sections to work on
   automating the same in a manner that contributes to raising the efficiency of work.
8.  Develop a training plan for the newly introduced solutions, programs and systems as well as train
    students and employees on them.
9.  Provide technical support for users and train them to use programs in an optimal manner.
10. Solve technical problems and develop mechanisms and alternatives to ensure continuity of work.
11. Ensure the readiness, safety and security of all technical equipment and operating systems as well
    as maintain and follow up their performance.
12. Provide technical support services to all sections and events of the University.
13. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
14. Cooperate with other sections of the University within  its scope of competence to achieve
    integration, apply the best practices and transfer knowledge and experiences.
15. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
16. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 101 ---
Fourth: Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs and Scientific Research
The Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs and Scientific Research: he is competent to undertake
the following:
1.  Replace the College/Academy Dean during his absence for any reason whatsoever with regard to
    his/her competence.
2.  Supervise the application and follow-up of all matters related to academic affairs and scientific
    research as well as contribute to their development.
3.  Supervise the academic guidance of students.
4.  Follow up the work of academic sections and follow up the implementation of academic programs
    at the College/Academy.
5.  Assess the job performance for heads of academic sections as well as organize the assessment
   procedures of job performance for faculty members.
6.  Contribute to developing the plan of training, development and qualification needs for the
   employees of his/her affiliated divisions.
7.  Supervise the development of operational and executive plans for his/her affiliated sections in
    collaboration with the heads of such sections as well as submit such plans to the Dean to approve
   them and follow up their implementation.
8.  Prepare the reports necessary for the work of his/her  affiliated sections in addition to the
   achievements made in the Strategic Plan with regard to academic affairs and scientific research.
9.  Identify the College/Academy needs of human and financial resources for his/her affiliated sections
    in coordination with the relevant entities.
10. Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of his/her affiliated sections and propose
    their development.
11. Supervise the programs and projects of postgraduate studies, scientific research, innovation and
    consultations at the College/Academy as well as follow up their implementation in coordination
   with the concerned entities and contribute to developing such programs and projects.
12. Establish communication channels with the branches, colleges, other research centres and various
    sectors with regard to scientific research, innovation and consultations in accordance with the
   Communication Policy and Procedures at the University.
13. Seek to obtain financial resources to fund research, innovative and consulting projects as well as
    coordinate with the entities concerned with managing and employing such resources to serve
    scientific research, innovation and consultations according to the rules regulating the same.
14. Supervise the organization and holding of conferences, seminars and research events according to
    the rules regulating the same in coordination with the concerned entities.
15. Supervise the development of the operational and executive plans of his/her affiliated divisions as
   well as submit such plans to the Dean for approval and follow up their implementation.
16. Any other duties assigned to him/her and that fall within his/her competences.

--- Page 102 ---
The Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs and  Scientific Research  shall exercise  his/her
competences via the following divisions:
A- Research and Consultations Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s Strategic Plan.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
   on achievements made.
3.  Raise awareness about the research and consulting activities at the College/Academy and local
   community.
4.  Provide references and research resources at the level of the College/Academy and facilitate access
    to them.
5.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of research and consultations at the
   College/Academy as well as propose their development.
6.  Activate channels of communication with the relevant research and consulting  institutions
   according to the Communication Policy approved at the University.
7.  Participate in organizing and holding conferences, seminars and other scientific events and activities
    at the level of the College/Academy.
8.  Prepare the programs of research and consultations, follow up their implementation, take necessary
   measures to develop them and create a stimulating environment for researchers and innovators.
9.  Create partnerships with the private sector and stimulate expenditure on research according to
    national priorities and the strategies of scientific research and innovation.
10. Contribute to directing the researches towards looking into the future, its requirements and horizons
    as well as monitor changes and shifts in this aspect.
11. Work with industrial institutions so as to promote the role of research and development sectors in
    supporting the fields of researches related to future technologies.
12. Monitor and cope with changes and shifts in the local, regional and international sectors of research
   and innovation.
13. Contribute to the sector of studies and researches that are based on innovative solutions and foster
    this culture.
14. Follow up the application of scientific research ethics at the level of the College/Academy.
15. Develop solutions for the challenges facing the research sector at the level of the College/Academy.
16. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
17. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 103 ---
B- Partnership and Entrepreneurship Section: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Strategic Plan of the University.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Section, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
    achievements made.
3.  Introduce the annual entrepreneurship plan, its conditions and available funding sources.
4.  Foster the entrepreneurship culture and establish the entrepreneurial thinking among the University’s
    students.
5.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Partnership and Entrepreneurship Section
     at the College/Academy and propose their development.
6.  Contribute to preparing entrepreneurship programs at the level of the College/Academy in coordination with
    the concerned sectors.
7.  Take the measures necessary for developing entrepreneurship at the College/Academy and local community
    according to the Communication Policy at the University.
8.  Introduce students to the entrepreneurship support system and provide them with basic skills necessary for
    enabling them to manage their start-ups successfully.
9.  Contribute to promoting the role of SMEs in finding jobs and employment opportunities which accommodate
    the University’s graduates.
10. Highlight start-up student companies at the level of the College/Academy and support them to get involved
    in the business sector.
11. Build  relations and partnerships between the College/Academy and the entrepreneurship-supporting
     institutions.
12. Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such programs in
    coordination with the competent entities.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

C- Innovation and Technology Transfer Department: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Strategic Plan of the University.
2.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Department, follow up its implementation and submit reports
   on achievements made.
3.  Follow up the application of quality standards in the work of the Department and propose their development.
4.  Follow up the projects related to innovation, intellectual property and technology transfer at the
    level of the College/Academy.
5.  Take the measures necessary for innovation development and technology transfer at the College/Academy
   and local community according to the Communication Policy approved at the University.
6.  Ensure that the College/Academy employees are aware of the annual plan for innovation and
   technology transfer, available funding resources and the conditions of such plan.
7.  Spread the culture of scientific research, innovation, intellectual property and technology transfer
    at the College/Academy and local community.
8.  Apply the policy of intellectual property and technology transfer as well as scientific research ethics
    at the level of the College/Academy.
9.  Apply the performance indicators related to innovation and technology transfer which are based on
    the inputs and outputs of innovation.
10. Market developed technologies and manage intellectual property rights for the College/Academy
   and partners from various business sectors.
11. Contribute to supporting multi-disciplinary innovative researches as well as foster the culture of
    innovation solutions for the needs of production sectors.
12. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
13. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 104 ---
D- Scientific Research Centres: (the establishment, merger or cancellation of scientific research
    centres shall be approved as per the University’s System and its Executive Regulations by the
    University Council after obtaining the approval of the concerned entities), they are competent to
   undertake the following:
1.  Prepare an annual working plan for the Centre, follow up its implementation and submit reports on
   achievements made.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Centre as well as
   propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Carry out research studies related to the work of the Centre.
4.  Assess research works that fall within the Centre’s scope of work.
5.  Build research relations with the research centres as well as academic and research institutions
    related to the work of the Centre.
6.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose work-related development plans.
7.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
8.  Contribute to improving the services provided.
9. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

E- Academic Departments: (the establishment, merger or cancellation of academic departments shall
   be approved as the University’s System and its Executive Regulations by the University Council
    after obtaining the approval of the concerned entities)
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Academic Departments as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the  rules,  regulations and  policies  related  to  the Academic
   Departments as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Distribute teaching hours among faculty members in consultation with the Department Council at
    the College/Academy.
4.  Determine  the  Section’s  requirements  to  implement  the  program  at  the  level  of  the
   College/Academy.
5.  Develop the assessment process followed in the Department.
6.  Follow up the progress of the academic guidance of students of the College/Academy.
7.  Develop scientific research in coordination with other sections at the College/Academy or the
    University’s Presidency.
8.  Participate in the assessment of job performance for faculty members and employees of his/her
    affiliated divisions.
9.  Provide the recommendations related to projects, contracts and research consultations as well as
    offer recommendations with regard to the services provided to the community.
10. Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
11. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
12. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 105 ---
F- Continuous Education and Community Service Department: it is competent to undertake the
    following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Continuous Education and Community
    Service Department as well as follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by
    the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Continuous Education
   and Community Service Department as well as propose their development in coordination with the
   concerned sections.
3.  Foster partnership between the University and the local community with regard to building and
   developing continuous education programs as well as developing the skills of the local community.
4.  Implement and develop continuous education and community service programs based on the
   feedback received from stakeholders.
5. Employ qualified human competencies as well as the financial resources of the College/Academy
    in serving the community.
6.  Carry out survey and field studies that reveal the community’s needs in the areas of continuous
   education and community service.
7.  Spread awareness and culture of the importance of continuous education and community service in
    collaboration with the concerned sections at the College/Academy.
8.  Encourage the employees and students of the College/Academy to do voluntary work.
9.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Department’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

G- Preparatory Studies Centre: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the University’s plans related to the Preparatory Studies Centre as well as
   follow up the implementation of such plans after being approved by the competent entities.
2.  Supervise the enforcement of the rules, regulations and policies related to the Preparatory Studies
   Centre as well as propose their development in coordination with the concerned sections.
3.  Implement and assess preparatory programs to identify areas of improvement and work on their
   development in collaboration with the Preparatory Studies Centre.
4.  Develop the systems, curricula, assessment methods, educational material of preparatory programs
    as well as submit necessary reports regarding the same.
5.  Carry out a standard benchmark to know the compliance of programs’ outputs with the international
    standards.
6.  Apply the standards of the Oman Authority for Academic Accreditation to preparatory studies’
   programs at the College/Academy.
7.  Propose qualification programs for the faculty members of the College/Academy so as to raise the
    level of performance.
8.  Prepare the annual report of achievements made according to the operational and executive plans,
    identify challenges and propose development plans related to work progress.
9.  Propose professional development programs for the Section’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
10. Contribute to improving the services provided.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 106 ---
The Preparatory Studies Centre shall exercise its competences via the following Sections:
A- English Language Curriculum and Assessment Unit: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of English language
    curricula according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess English language curricula for all programs, contribute to their development, prepare
   feedback reports and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members of the English language at the
   College/Academy.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials for the theoretical and practical
    teaching of the English language at the College/Academy.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for measuring
    the quality of English language curricula so as to improve performance.
7.  Apply the systems and standards of examinations and continued assessment for English
   language programs according to approved standards, follow up their implementation and
    contribute to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of the faculty
   members of the English language at the College/Academy.
9.  Assign job duties to the lecturers of the English language at the College/Academy as needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

B- Mathematics and Computing Skills Curriculum and Assessment Unit: it is competent to
   undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of mathematics and
   computing skills according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess the curricula of mathematics and computing skills for all programs, contribute to their
   development, prepare feedback reports and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members of Mathematics and Computing
    Skills at the College/Academy.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials for the theoretical and practical
    teaching of Mathematics and Computing Skills at the College/Academy.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for measuring
    the quality of Mathematics and Computing Skills curricula so as to improve performance.
7.  Apply the systems of examinations and continued assessment for Mathematics and Computing
    Skills programs according to approved standards, follow up their implementation and contribute
    to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of the faculty
   members of Mathematics and Computing Skills.
9.  Assign job duties to the lecturers of Mathematics and Computing Skills at the College/Academy as
    needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.

--- Page 107 ---
C- General Requirements Unit: it is competent to undertake the following:
1.  Contribute to preparing the Unit’s operational and executive plans as well as follow up their
   implementation and submit periodic reports regarding the same.
2.  Supervise the implementation of plans for the educational curricula of  all programs
   according to the time plan specified for each semester.
3.  Assess curricula for all programs, contribute to their development, prepare feedback reports
   and submit necessary technical recommendations.
4.  Distribute teaching loads and duties among the faculty members as well as distribute duties
    to holders of supporting technical jobs.
5.  Contribute to preparing the educational and practical materials of the theoretical and
    practical teaching at the level of the College/Academy.
6.  Assess the quality of outputs and their compliance with the international standards for
   measuring the quality of the program so as to improve performance.
7. Apply the systems and standards of examinations and continued assessment for all programs
   according to approved standards and systems, follow up their implementation and contribute
    to their development.
8.  Prepare and propose qualification programs to develop the knowledge and skills of faculty
   members and holders of supporting jobs at the College/Academy.
9.  Assign job duties to the Unit’s lecturers at the College/Academy as needed.
10. Propose professional development programs for the Unit’s employees and implement such
   programs in coordination with the competent entities.
11. Any other duties that fall within its area of competences.